As a Canadian baptized into hockey fandom at an early age, the Prudential Center will forever be synonymous for me with the New Jersey Devils, and especially goaltender Martin Brodeur, whose statue stands outside the arena.

The Devils moved into the building when it opened in 2007, right as the glory years of my beloved Detroit Red Wings were coming to a close, and as someone that grew up fixated on goalies, Brodeur, arguably the greatest goaltender in NHL history, was always my guy. When I hear “Prudential Center,” I always flash to Marty, even though he played more seasons in East Rutherford than he did in Newark.

But that’s been changing over the last handful of years, as my interest has shifted almost exclusively to combat sports and the UFC has become a regular visitor to the home of the Devils.

Since its opening, the Octagon has made 10 trips to Prudential Center, and ahead of next month’s return for UFC 316, it felt like a great time to comb through the archives and highlight some of the electric and impactful performances that went down at “The Rock” over the years.

This is one for folks that just like to watch high-level, technical kickboxing.

Admit it: when you read the title of this piece, this was the first fight that came to mind as being an automatic inclusion in this list. It had to, because this was a performance that changed the landscape of the sport.

These lists always carry a “one for me” mention and this is it.

I did, too.

If you read enough of my stuff — especially the Fight-By-Fight Preview and Fighters on the Rise series — you know that I adore fights that are “measuring stick moments” for ascending talents: bouts where someone on the come-up is paired off with a proven, established name, and the outcome will give us a clearer indication of where the up-and-comer stands in their respective division.

Would the surging hopeful take another step forward or would the ever-game veteran prove to be too stern a test?

It would still be two years before “Blessed” became the undisputed featherweight champion, but this was the first sign that accomplishing that feat was a real possibility for the all-action Hawaiian.

Much like the Evans-Bisping fight earlier in this list, this one makes the cut as much for what has happened since as what transpired on May 6, 2023.

At some point, a rematch between these two feels inevitable.

Here’s another one of those “where does Fighter X stand?” type of fights that I love so much

We wrap with the most recent UFC fight to take place inside Prudential Center, one that landed just off the podium in our year-end awards and that showcased both the heart and grit of the challenger, and the brilliance of the champion.