
The Devils moved into the building when it opened in 2007, right as the glory years of my beloved Detroit Red Wings were coming to a close, and as someone that grew up fixated on goalies, Brodeur, arguably the greatest goaltender in NHL history, was always my guy. When I hear “Prudential Center,” I always flash to Marty, even though he played more seasons in East Rutherford than he did in Newark.

Fights like this are why I enjoy putting together these lists so much, because without retrospectives like this, this wildly entertaining scrap between middleweight battlers Ed Herman and Joe Doerkson would rarely get its moment in the sun.

Herman was a finalist on TUF 3 and Doerkson was a battle-hardened Canadian veteran, and both were trying their damnedest to get the better of things in this one. In the final seconds of the second round, with both men clearly fatiguing and sporting signs of the torment they’d already put each other through, Doerkson locked onto a deep triangle choke and had Herman dead to rights, rolling through and extending the arm as the horn sounded and kept the fight from being finished.

As they came out to start the third, both men were lumbering and throwing singles, neither connecting before they met in the center of the cage. Each missed with a left and a hook behind it, but then Herman was faster to the target with the next swing, a left hook that found Doerkson’s jaw and ended the competitive battle in a snap.

The main event of that initial pay-per-view in Newark was a matchup between Ultimate Fighter winners Rashad Evans (Season 2) and Michael Bisping (Season 3), and makes this list more for its overall impact than the fight itself.

Don’t get me wrong: it was a fun, competitive scrap between two rising talents where Evans came away on the happy side of the split decision verdict, handing Bisping his first career loss, but it’s everything that happened after this fight that makes it a seminal moment in the UFC’s New Jersey history.

After the win, Evans knocked out Chuck Liddell in the main event of UFC 88 the following September, and claimed the light heavyweight title three months after that by stopping Forrest Griffin in the third round of their headlining tilt at UFC 92. While he’d lose the title in his next appearance, Evans remained a prominent figure in the 205-pound weight class for the better part of a decade.

Following the loss, Bisping realized he was better suited to competing at middleweight, where he became a Top 10 fixture, main event staple, and one of the most recognizable names in the sport. Just when it seemed like UFC gold would escape him, “Left Hook Larry” showed up in Los Angeles, knocked out Luke Rockhold, and added a middleweight title to Bisping’s impressive resume.

It’s strange to remember now, but Barboza was the young, ascending talent at the time, making just his second UFC start after battering the legs of Mike Lullo in his debut a few months earlier. Njokuani was making his first trip into the Octagon, but MMA fans already had a history with the Nigerian-born lightweight thanks to his entertaining run under the WEC banner.

Barboza put Njokuani on Jello legs early in the fight with a swift, thudding right hand, but the WEC alum steadied himself, and the duo spent the remainder of the fight engaging in the kind of kick-heavy, back-and-forth striking battle that is always captivating.

More than 14 years later, Barboza is still doing his thing inside the Octagon, adding to his ridiculous overall strength of schedule, while Njokuani can still be seen in the corner of his younger brother, UFC welterweight Chidi Njokuani, every time he makes the walk.

Rua had claimed the title with a first-round knockout win over Lyoto Machida in a rematch of their controversial first encounter which “The Dragon” won by debated decision. The new champ was supposed to defend against Evans, but the former champion was felled by a knee injury, opening the door for his teammate Jones to slide into the vacancy and challenge for the title.

Jones’ accepting the bout caused a fissure with the Jackson-Wink MMA team in Albuquerque that eventually resulted in the founding of the team that is now Kill Cliff FC and a long-standing feud between Jones and Evans. It also gave “Bones” the opportunity to make history.

Up to this point, Jones had been dominant, and everyone knew he had championship potential, but the way he dominated Rua, dispatching him in the third round to become the youngest fighter ever to win UFC gold, made it clear that he was on an entirely different level than everyone else.

Every fight Jones has been in since this fight has been a championship bout, and he’s gone 15-0 with one no contest during that stretch, further cementing his standing as the greatest talent to ever grace the Octagon.

If you read enough of my stuff — especially the Fight-By-Fight Preview and Fighters on the Rise series — you know that I adore fights that are “measuring stick moments” for ascending talents: bouts where someone on the come-up is paired off with a proven, established name, and the outcome will give us a clearer indication of where the up-and-comer stands in their respective division.

Long before “Blessed” became one of the most beloved fighters on the roster, he was a scrappy Hawaiian kid working his way forward in the featherweight division. He entered this fight on a five-fight winning streak that had people starting to wonder about his potential as a championship threat. Swanson was — as he remains today — one of the most respected veterans in the division; a Top 5 talent coming off a loss to Frankie Edgar in what many viewed as a title eliminator the previous November in Austin, Texas, that ended his six-fight winning streak.

This was Holloway’s breakout performance, the win that catapulted him from intriguing prospect to genuine contender. He showcased the full complement of his arsenal before closing things out by jumping onto a guillotine choke out of a scramble in the final minute of the fight.

Two fights after Holloway stopped Swanson with a mounted guillotine choke, Rockhold choked out Machida to secure a date opposite then middleweight champ Chris Weidman at UFC 194.

This was Rockhold at his swaggering best.

Just a few months removed from submitting Michael Bisping in Australia and riding a three-fight winning streak where each of those contests ended inside the distance, the former Strikeforce champion sauntered around the cage like a man that was sure of the eventual outcome and was simply trying to decide how long he wanted to be in there. The athletic, explosive southpaw was all over Machida from the outset, showing that he was in a different class than the former light heavyweight champion and recent middleweight title challenger, out-working him on the feet and dominating when the action hit the canvas.

Rockhold collected the submission finish at the midway point of the second round and won the middleweight title eight months later before dropping the belt to Bisping at UFC 199. While that loss and the way his career wrapped are often what stands out most for many fans when they think about Rockhold’s time in the cage, there was a brief stretch where the Californian was the best middleweight on the planet and one of the very best pound-for-pound fighters in the sport.

Let me start by saying the fight was thrilling from start to finish, with Lopes rolling in as a complete unknown to most and leaving as a genuine person of interest in the featherweight ranks. He pushed Evloev from the jump, showcasing his aggressive style, and forcing the Russian standout to work hard to maintain his unblemished record.

In the two years since this contest, Evloev has pushed his record to 19-0 with additional decision wins over Arnold Allen and Aljamain Sterling, while Lopes posted five straight victories to land opposite Alexander Volkanovski in a battle for the vacant featherweight title at UFC 314 in Miami. Though he came up short in his bid to claim UFC gold, Lopes has become one of the most popular fighters on the roster and someone that continues to profile as a potential champion somewhere down the line.

UFC 302 was geared around Poirier taking one final shot at capturing the title that has eluded him throughout his career. In the wake of Cody Rhodes winning WWE gold a couple months earlier at WrestleMania to “finish his story,” many were hopeful “The Diamond” would do the same. In order to achieve the feat, however, he would need to get through the indomitable Makhachev, who entered off his knockout win over Alexander Volkanovski in October and riding a 13-fight winning streak.

Poirier gave the champion all he could handle, forcing Makhachev into his first real bloody battle, but the Russian showed his class in the final round, capitalizing on a stumble to latch onto the fight-ending D’Arce choke.

The challenger may not have gotten the storybook ending many wanted, but his gameness throughout this contest is, in my opinion, the thing that has always and will always be his trademark. Few competitors don’t need to win belts to always be revered, but Poirier is one of them.

As for Makhachev, he added to his resume by posting a fourth consecutive successful lightweight title defense earlier this year, and will look to equal Anderson Silva’s mark for the most consecutive UFC victories when he ventures up to welterweight to challenge new champ Jack Della Maddalena for the belt at some point later this year.