
Former welterweight champ Leon Edwards returns to action for the first time since dropping the title, facing off with charging contender Sean Brady.

The 32-year-old Brady continues to inch towards a championship opportunity, having earned consecutive victories since suffering the lone loss of his career to Muhammad back at UFC 280. After submitting Kelvin Gastelum towards the end of 2023, the Philadelphia native out-worked Gilbert Burns in his lone appearance of 2024, moving to 17-1 in the process.

Edwards was originally booked to face Jack Della Maddalena, who was then called up to face Muhammad for the title at UFC 315 in Montreal, leaving space for Brady to step in. This is a very different matchup, as the American tends to grapple much more than his Australian counterpart, though the pressure and focus on Edwards to show his performance last July was simply an off night remains the same.

Jan Błachowicz and Carlos Ulberg face off in this clash of Top 10 light heavyweights looking to cement their place in the pecking order of the division where a new man now sits on the throne.

The former champ Blachowicz turned 42 last month and makes the walk for the first time since welcoming Alex Pereira to the division at UFC 291. He dropped that fight by split decision and battled current titleholder Magomed Ankalaev to a split draw in a championship bout at UFC 282 before that, so while he’s failed to register a victory in his last two fights, it’s clear the caliber of fighter the Polish veteran is by the company he’s kept and the closeness of those fights.

There is no hotter fighter in the light heavyweight ranks outside of Ulberg, who enters on a division-best seven-fight winning streak. After dispatching Alonzo Menifield in a whirlwind 12-second fight in May, the City Kickboxing man showed his evolution and poise by collecting a unanimous decision victory over Top 10 mainstay Volkan Oezdemir near the end of November in Macau.

With Ankalaev having just claimed the throne and likely destined to square off with Pereira for a second time later this year, Saturday’s co-main event becomes more about maintaining and strengthening position in the hierarchy than securing an immediate championship opportunity. But nothing is ever etched in stone in this sport, so a key win here for either man will put them on the short list of possible title challengers, and if something goes awry down the line, their phone could certainly ring.

Gunnar Nelson has always been a fan favorite in London and he returns to make his third straight appearances in England’s capital, facing off with Kevin Holland in what could be an electric welterweight fixture.

Holland makes his second appearance of the year and fifth start in a little over a year, returning to welterweight in hopes of halting a two-fight skid. Last time out at UFC 311, he was quickly taken down and submitted by Reinier de Ridder, and it will be interesting to see what lessons he took from that contest, as Nelson will likely look to employ the same strategy.

Will the returning Nelson secure a third straight victory or can Holland collect his first welterweight win since the summer of 2023 and get things moving in the right direction again?

It’s England versus Scotland in this lightweight pairing, as Jordan Vucenic makes his sophomore appearance in the Octagon opposite Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) grad Chris Duncan.

A former Cage Warriors featherweight champ, Vucenic made his promotional debut on short notice last summer in Abu Dhabi, dropping a competitive decision to Guram Kutateladze. The loss snapped a four-fight winning streak (and finishing streak) for “The Epidemic,” who rose to prominence on the UK scene as part of a standout triptych with Paul Hughes and Morgan Charriere.

Duncan punched his ticket to the UFC in his second DWCS appearance, and has gone 3-1 to start his time competing inside the Octagon. Last time out, he rebounded from a first-round submission loss by collecting one of his own, putting newcomer Bolaji Oki to sleep in the opening bout of the UFC’s annual trip to Paris in September.

No matter how this one plays out, the United Kingdom earns a win, but will it be Vucenic and the Brits celebrating or Duncan and the Scots?

Charriere has gone 2-1 in is first three UFC appearances, sandwiching a split decision loss to Chepe Mariscal between stoppage wins over Manolo Zecchini and Gabriel Miranda on Parisienne soil. Collecting post-fight bonuses in each of those outings underscores the all-action approach “The Last Pirate” brings to the Octagon, and a win over Wood could leave him on the doorstep of the Top 15 heading into the second quarter of this year’s UFC schedule.

Featherweight feels like it’s on the cusp of major changes, with Ilia Topuria having vacated the title and several rankings fixtures getting up in age. There is a great deal at stake in this one for each man, and it should result in the main card opening with an absolute barnburner on Saturday.

The preliminary card wraps in the lightweight division, as local favorite Jai Herbert faces off with Chris Padilla.

A native of Wolverhampton, Herbert has made four UFC appearances in London, going 1-2-1 over that stretch, but enters Saturday’s contest off a strong effort against Rolando Bedoya last summer. Padilla made an immediate impact as a rookie in the UFC last year, registering consecutive first-round stoppage wins over James Llontop and Rongzhu to push his overall winning streak to five.

Highly regarded flyweight prospects clash here as Lone’er Kavanagh and Felipe dos Santos share the cage.

After kicking off Season 8 of Dana White’s Contender Series by detonating a neutron bomb on the chin of An Tuan Ho, Kavanagh picked up his first UFC victory in November, out-hustling another Chute Boxe Diego Lima product, Jose Ochoa. The 24-year-old dos Santos looks to avenge his teammate’s defeat and get himself back into the win column here, after a somewhat lethargic effort against Andre Lima last time out.

Ranked heavyweights Marcin Tybura and Mick Parkin clash in this critical preliminary card pairing on Saturday evening in London.

A tenured member of the Top 15, the 39-year-old Tybura enters off a second-round stoppage win over Jhonata Diniz at UFC 309 and returns to The O2 Arena looking to further cement his standing in the heavyweight pecking order. A member of the DWCS Class of ’22, Parkin has gone 4-0 to begin his UFC journey, forcing his way into the rankings following a first-round knockout win over Lukasz Brzeski last summer in Manchester.

Former Cage Warriors champ Christian Leroy Duncan hopes a return to familiar surroundings brings a return to the win column as he welcomes Andrey Pulyaev to the UFC for the first time.

“CLD” touched down in the UFC with an unbeaten record and a ton of hype as a potential future contender in the middleweight division, but has managed just a 3-2 mark over his first five starts. Pulyaev earned his place on the roster with a unanimous decision win over Liam Anderson last season on Dana White’s Contender Series that extended his winning streak to five and his record to 9-2 heading into his promotional debut here.

TUF alum Nathan Fletcher returns home to face off with Irishman Caolan Loughran in an intriguing bantamweight matchup early in the weekend’s slate.

Fletcher’s toughness in the TUF house earned him a chance to compete inside the Octagon, and the Next Generation MMA man made the most of it back in September, submitting fellow TUF 32 contestant Zygymantas Ramaska in the second round to collect his third straight win. Loughran, a former Cage Warriors bantamweight titleholder, has gone 1-2 to begin his UFC tenure, landing on the wrong side of the cards in competitive fights with Taylor Lapilus and Jake Hadley, while emerging victorious in a bout with Angel Pacheco in between.

Saturday’s action gets underway in the lightweight division, as Guram Kutateladze and Kaue Fernandes lock horns inside the Octagon.

A tantalizing talent in the 155-pound ranks who debuted with a split decision win over Mateusz Gamrot, Kutateladze looks to build on his August win over Vucenic and take a big step forward in the division by picking up his third UFC victory here. The 29-year-old Nova Uniao product Fernandes has split his first two appearances inside the Octagon, dropping a decision to Marc Diakiese before rebounding with a first-round stoppage win over Mohammad Yahya last time out.