
Liverpool’s Molly McCann squares off with Brazilian Alexia Thainara in this crucial strawweight clash on Saturday’s main card.

McCann shifted to the 115-pound ranks last year and began her campaign with a first-round submission win over Diana Belbita that got everyone excited about her potential in a new weight class. Unfortunately, she was unable to sustain that success, dropping a unanimous decision to Bruna Brasil at UFC 304 in Manchester to fall to just 1-3 in her last four UFC starts.

The 27-year-old Thainara makes her promotional debut here on short notice, stepping in for compatriot Istela Nunes. A unanimous decision win over Dana White’s Contender Series last season punched her ticket to the Octagon, and now the Ribas Family representative gets a high-profile assignment for her first foray into the UFC cage.

The shift in opponents to a promotional newcomer ratchets up the focus on McCann heading into this one, as the veteran is coming off a setback and looking to avoid a 1-4 run over her last five fights. It will be interesting to see how Thainara opts to approach this one, and where both her nerves and conditioning are at as she competes on the biggest stage in the sport for the first time, in hostile territory no less.

Wood has gone 4-1 since transitioning to the featherweight division at the start of his 2022 campaign, most recently bouncing back from a frustrating loss with a hard-fought win over veteran Daniel Pineda at UFC 304. Now 31 years old and brandishing a 20-6 record overall, 2025 feels like the year where “The Prospect” needs to string together a couple strong outings if he truly wants to make meaningful headway in the 145-pound ranks.

Ireland’s Shauna Bannon and India’s Puja Tomar collide in this international strawweight pairing.

After dropping her promotional debut, Bannon picked up her first UFC victory last summer at UFC 304, edging out short-notice replacement Alice Ardelean. Tomar also landed on the happy side of a split decision verdict in her most recent appearance, getting the nod over Rayanne dos Santos on her first Octagon appearance.