
The Australian, who earned his contract with a win last season on Dana White’s Contender Series, opened his year with a 19-second knockout win and a grinding decision victory, but Saturday’s performance was next level. At precisely the midway point of the contest, Salkilld went high with his right leg, catching Haqparast flush, putting him out cold before he crashed to the canvas.

Just an amazing finish for the 25-year-old Australian, who moved to 3-0 in the UFC with the win and extended his winning streak to 10 with the victory. Salkilld took the fight less than two weeks ago and made the absolute most of it, collecting one of the best knockouts of the year.

The Dana White’s Contender Series grad Aliskerov was crisp and snappy with his striking in the opening two rounds, mixing in timely takedowns that kept “The Iron Turtle” from being able to build any momentum. Though he was clearly fatiguing, Aliskerov did well to grapple in the third, shutting down Park’s offense, getting himself to the final horn and a second consecutive victory.

Aliskerov remains an intriguing name to track in the 185-pound ranks, having now won four of five in the UFC and 17 of his 19 fights overall. Park is a perpetual tough out and a good measuring stick figure in the middleweight division, and this victory should allow the talented Russian dark horse to take another step forward next time out.

The Slovakian talent was crisp with his counters and sharp with his takedown defense and get-ups throughout, hurting the resilient Rebecki multiple times, leaving him bruise, busted open, and bleeding. The Polish marauder remained undaunted, dragging Klein to the canvas in the third and punishing him from top position, only for Klein to gash him with an elbow from the bottom, adding more blood to the canvas and their bodies.

The judges were called upon to render a verdict, and when the scorecards were collected and totalled, it was Klein that came out ahead. That’s now seven wins in nine lightweight starts for Klein, who suffered an ankle injury late in the contest. For Rebecki, it’s a second straight tough loss in an absolute brawl, and a third consecutive slobberknocker for the unrelenting Polish fan favorite.

Walker has four straight UFC wins, all of them by heel hook, all of them in the opening round. The 27-year-old Brazilian is an absolute menace on the canvas and what he’s doing right now demands attention. This is just amazing!

The MMA Lab representative Delgado stung Wood straight out of the gates, but the British staple was able to return the favor and score a knockdown of his own. The two men spent the next 10 minutes exchanging almost exclusively on the feet, with Delgado’s output waning and Wood’s success rate climbing as the fight progressed.

All three judges scored the fight the same, giving Wood the second and third. “The Last Kingsman” is now 6-1 since shifting to the featherweight division, and with three straight wins and having stopped Delgado’s early rise, a date with a ranked opponent could be in the offing.

The Egyptian heavyweight was dominating during the first round, swiftly and easily dragging Barnett to the canvas, utilizing his wrestling. But late in the frame, Abdelwahab landed an elbow to the back of Barnett’s head, costing himself a point and bringing himself dangerously close to a disqualification loss. Barnett continued and Abdelwahab got back to controlling with his wrestling, grinding out a return to the win column.

The 32-year-old Abdulwahab, who wrestled in the 2016 Olympics, moved to 2-1 with one no contest through his first four UFC appearances, and he continued to show building block elements that could allow him to grow and develop going forward. For the beloved “Beastboy,” Saturday marked his second consecutive loss, third setback in four fights, and dropped his record to 2-4 inside the Octagon.

Late in the third, with Rapose looking to climb to three-quarter mount, Maksum clearly grabbed the fence to escape the position, resulting in referee Rich Mitchell immediately docking him a point. Though the point deduction didn’t end up factoring in the decision, it was still great to see, as the foul clearly influenced the action inside the Octagon.

This was a good win for the young American, who was on the wrong end of the split decisions in his first two UFC appearances, who picked up his first victory inside the Octagon here.