There is a clip from the Netflix series Starting 5 that has been making the rounds for the last year now that has become a touchstone for those that see it and understand the message being presented.

In the clip, the director of the segment is sitting with Boston Celtics head coach Joe Mazzulla, speaking about the team’s star, Jayson Tatum, and says, “It seems to me that Jayson has to deal with unfair criticism” and before he is able to get another word out, Mazzulla interrupts him.

“Gets to deal with,” he says, offering a correction to the director’s statement that not only illustrates the different ways of looking at things generally, but speaks to the greater understanding of what it means to compete at the highest level, on the biggest stage of your given sport; a message that is applicable to all endeavors, really.

“He gets to deal wth it,’ continues Mazzulla, a massive UFC fan that has attended several events and forged close bonds with some of MMA’s top coaches. “It’s the ultimate compliment, and that’s what we talk about. This is what you asked for. You asked to be one of the best players in the NBA, on the best team in the NBA, with an opportunity to be an icon for the league for a long, long time.

“This is what you asked for.”

“I’ve been embracing this thing for a long time now because I was this close to retiring. I feel like I got that second wind in my career because I figured out what was going wrong — it wasn’t me, it was something else — and so I’ve been really just trying to embrace this journey and enjoy it.

“I beat a lot of guys that were very talented just by outworking them. Who knows how things would have happened had the circumstances not gone the way the did, but I wouldn’t trade it. I wouldn’t f****** trade it for the world because my life would have changed completely, and if my life changed completely, I don’t know that I would have my second two (kids) and I wouldn’t trade it for a moment.”

“The way I’ve always looked at it — and it’s a really weird mindset to have as a professional fighter — is that all these trials and tribulations are preparing me for something else. I’ve been knocked out, I’ve been subbed out, and I’ve been beaten up for 15 minutes; it ain’t that bad. I’ve come out of fights forever changed, and it is really not that bad.

“I would take that every day to not have to go through some of the things my peers in fighting have gone through, other parents have gone through,” continues the proud father of four. “My only hope is that I can pick up the experience from all of this — the positive and the negative — in order to be able to handle whatever life throws at me next.

“Because that’s the only guarantee,” he adds, “is that life is gonna be f***** up and you’re gonna have to handle some s***.”

“I’ve gone out and armbarred a third-degree black belt in the first round, from my guard, which you would think was a perfect outing, but in my mind, it wasn’t. I’ve gone out and had the Fight of the Year on a five-week training camp, but that wasn’t perfect either.

“It’s kind of like writing a book, writing the story, where there has to be a little adversity, but not too much, and I’m still trying to find that one.”

“I don’t think that I ever will.”