
Stuck on a three-fight losing streak and making the walk on the final fight of his contract, the 35-year-old veteran knew his back was against the wall as he readied to step into the fray at the Bell Centre in Montreal.

“Honestly, I feel like the fight in Montreal was kind of easy for me — going back to my roots, seeing my people, speaking the same language,” he added. “The whole fight week in Montreal was fun for me; I had no nerves at all, everything was in a flow state.”

“It was crazy,” Barriault began when asked about the emotions that washed over him following the devastating knockout, which earned him a Performance of the Night bonus, as well as a new contract. “I was in another state because as soon as I felt him going down and the referee stopped the fight, I jumped on the cage.

“The one in Montreal was special for me — it was the cherry on top, especially after everything that happened to me. Coming back with a big knockout — my first real big knockout in the UFC, so early in the first round; that was kind of perfect for me.”

And the perfect evening was capped in quintessential Montreal form, too.

“A good old poutine in Montreal,” Barriault said with a laugh when asked how he celebrated the triumph. “I fought early, so I had the chance to come back to the arena to watch a couple fights on the main card, and then me and my family and friends gathered and we went to La Banquise — it’s a nice place; a 24-hour spot for good poutine in Montreal.

“I think we were 20 people inside, ordered a good poutine, and a couple beers.”

As soon as he returned to Deerfield Beach, Florida, where he lives and trains at Kill Cliff FC, Barriault got a call from his manager, with good news and a surprising question.

“I came back to Florida on the Tuesday after the fight, and on Wednesday morning, my manager called me and said, ‘I have more good news. First of all, they’re gonna give you a new contract, but they asked me how soon you’re able to fight?’”

While both men are billed as strikers, they are very different in the application of their craft.

“I think he’s not comfortable when he gets pressed against the cage, when he’s in the deep waters, so I need to close the range without getting hit too much; make sure I have a good shield, and maybe I can wrestle this guy.

“Going for back-to-back wins after what happened last year, I feel like it’s going to be another statement, for myself, but for my career also, just to prove that it doesn’t always matter (what the results are): you just have to trust yourself, take the opportunity, and make the most of it.

“I know I’m gonna gain a lot of fans, a lot of respect, and a big win, for sure.”