
“I was aware of everything,” Barriault said with a smile from his hotel room in Abu Dhabi, where he’s set to face off with Shara Magomedov on the main card of this weekend’s UFC on ABC fight card from Etihad Arena. “I’m not gonna lie: I knew my back was against the wall, for sure, but I feel like every time my back was against the wall, something happens inside of me. When I don’t have anything to lose, I just focus on myself and I know I can do great things.

“Normally, the commission guy asks us to go down, but I feel like he knew I needed that moment to soak in everything from the crowd. I even started crying a little bit because all the stress, all the emotion was leaving my system, and I was like, ‘Okay Marc — you deserve this moment. Take it in, this is yours.’

With the promotion set to return to Abu Dhabi, they were looking for an opponent for Shara Magomedov, the popular Muay Thai stylist whose five-fight UFC career has thus far all taken place in the MENA region.

Coming off a loss to Michael “Venom” Page earlier this year in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, they set their sights on the always game Barriault as the man for the job, and after thinking about how the two could potentially match up inside the Octagon, “Powerbar” accepted the challenge and hustled right back into another training camp.

“I started thinking about it, and my style and his style can be a good matchup together,” Barriault said, breaking down his process for agreeing to face Magomedov this weekend. “After the fight with Bruno, I gained a lot of confidence, so I said, ‘Just keep rolling. They gave you a raise, a new contract; they have full belief in you, so just go in, do your thing.’

“So I said okay and I jumped into another training camp,” he added, grinning. “I was more specific on my training this time because I’m fighting a striker like Shara, so I didn’t have to go crazy all the time. It was more specific to make sure I see everything and do my thing. I want to fight my fight, not his fight.”

Where Magomedov comes from a Muay Thai background and is at his best working from kicking range and being precise with his shot selection, Barriault is a blue-collar grinder that prefers to get inside and make things ugly. In order to succeed this weekend, he knows that is what he’s going to have to do.

“I’m a dirty boxer — I like to be inside, in close range, use uppercuts, knees, elbows,” began the Gatineau, Quebec native, offering his breakdown of the first of this weekend’s two middleweight main card battles. “I’m a pressure fighter, where he needs space and likes to bounce. He likes to throw crazy things and set up things. I need to make sure he’s not having time to think too much before he strikes because he likes to gauge and then attack.

“I know he has some Dagestani roots, but he’s not the same wrestler as (everyone else from that area),” he added with a smirk. “I will probably be able to do my clinch game, make him carry my weight, be heavy on top if we go to the ground, and then just make sure I don’t get caught with stupid things.”

After entering the year on a three-fight losing streak and walking into his last fight with an uncertain future in front of him, Barriault is now in a position where a victory on Saturday evening could shift send him into the final five months of the year in almost the completely opposite position.

And while he knows the challenge before him is strong and the odds, quite literally, are against him, he’s ready to bet on himself again (not literally) and take another satisfying flight back to Florida on the high of a second straight victory.

“Coming here, into enemy territory, as the underdog, it’s going to be a sweet taste,” he said of beating Magomedov. “I just need to make sure I do my best, fight hard, and people know why they put me in front of this guy.