Calling the process of getting acclimated to competing on the biggest stage in the sport “Octagon jitters” puts a fun, yet minimizing, twist on something that exists in every major professional sport and is a real part of advancing to the highest level in your chosen craft.

Think about the standout prospect that struggles mightily when they get their first cup of coffee in the major leagues or the rookie that was drafted high, but falters once the ball is snapped because the speed of the NFL game is so dramatically different than it was in college. We see it all the time, but when it comes to MMA fighters, it feels like there is a greater expectation that they hit the ground running as soon as they arrive in the UFC, but doing so is extremely difficult.

In addition to getting comfortable with the increased level of skill and the speed of how things move at the highest level, there are the secondary and tertiary pieces that most people often overlook when discussing the transition from the regional ranks to the UFC roster.

While some of the top end promotions around the globe bring the “big league” feel of competing inside the Octagon, it’s all the “behind the scenes” pieces and familiar faces you see during those early Fight Week experiences that throw people off. In many cases, regional events are contained to making weight, and then turning up on the night of the show; there is limited media and very few obligations and expectations put on the shoulders of the athletes other than for them to turn up and fight.

The UFC fight week experience is a multi-day adventure that includes everything from checking in and learning where everything is to photo shoots, outfitting, and media obligations, all while you’re also trying to hone in on cutting weight and getting ready to make the walk to the Octagon at the end of the week.

“When you’re fighting in previous organizations, it’s not the same,” Oki said with a smile. “The UFC is the main thing — it’s your goal, it’s your dream — and it’s like, ‘Wow! Am I really here?’ You have that thing and the other thing is that you need to perform.

“At the Dana White’s Contender Series, I knew it was an opportunity that I had to take,  so I was like, ‘I’m just gonna give it my all and f*** everything else,’ so I was 100-percent go, go, go. Once you have the contract, you’re like, ‘Now I’m here’ and you have four fights, and you see DC, all those big stars you see on TV, so you’re enjoying the process, but also living it and being like, ‘Wow!’

“I signed my second contract, so I’m super-happy about that, and I’m ready to go and to live on my dream.”

“(After this), I wanna fight somebody in the Top 15 and then climb up — climb, climb, climb my way to the Top 10, Top 5, and then go hunting for the belt. Fighting, fighting, winning, winning, and getting close to the belt.”