
“I think being a good example for others means I need to do everything even better,” Zhang said on Wednesday morning through an interpreter when asked about being at the vanguard of the rise of Chinese MMA. “It means that I need to continue to improve and continue to be better than my old self.”

Most people with Zhang’s accomplishments and accolades may choose to take a different approach, and it’s understandable, because what the 35-year-old titleholder has already done to this point of her career is tremendous.

Heading into this weekend’s pay-per-view, the Chinese standout is 9-2 inside the Octagon and 25-3 overall, having won championship gold on two occasions and successfully defended the belt three times, including twice already in her second stint on the throne.

“I think it was a historical breakthrough for Chinese MMA; the first time two MMA fighters from China competed in such a high-level fight,” she said of the clash with Yan, where she appeared on the brink of securing a finish before the challenger turned the tables and claimed all the momentum, only for Zhang to change up her tactics and find a way to secure the victory.

It was one of the best fights of 2024, and yet still, her focus is on continuing to level up and push herself to be even better.

While most of it is instinctual and the way she has always carried herself, a part of it undoubtedly is driven by the fact that she’s stepping in with an absolute standout this weekend in Suarez.

“I think Tatiana is great in her wrestling and grappling, but I have also improved a lot in my wrestling and grappling in the past couple years, and prepared a lot for this,” Zhang said of her American opponent, who has earned four of her six post-TUF wins inside the distance and looms as arguably the champion’s toughest test since reclaiming the title in November 2022.

While she’s unsure why Suarez was initially quiet, Zhang expects their fight this weekend to be the opposite once the Octagon door closes.

“I believe this will be a great fight for the audience,” she said when asked about how she sees the fight playing out. “A lot of people may think it’s a fight between striking and wrestling, but I don’t think so.”

It’s unlikely to be a classic clash of singular styles because the truth about Zhang is that she has developed into one of the best all-around talents in the sport, transforming from someone that was primarily a striker in the early stages of her UFC career to a multi-faceted talent whose wrestling and grappling has grown by leaps and bounds.

The fact that she has become so skilled in the clinch and on the canvas speaks to that elite-level approach and attitude — that “the best still work tirelessly to get better” drive, which she expressed by echoing the legendary Bruce Lee.

“I think being a champion is like being water,” began Zhang. “Being water is very important because as the champion, every fighter and every opponent in the division looks at you, and if you maintain a fixed style, it’s not gonna work.

It’s clearly something she has done throughout her career, and done with great success, as her second stint atop the strawweight division has already exceeded her first in both duration and number of successful title defenses.

And it’s something she will surely continue to do going forward, as evidenced by the way she responded when asked what goals and accomplishments she still would like to pursue, given all that she’s already achieved in the sport.

“My current goal is just to win this fight; I just focus on this fight,” she said without pause. “I think it’s most important to focus on this fight.”