
“Inside of the cage, I’m a contradiction to what I am outside of it,” admitted the Xtreme Couture representative, who is slated to face Antonio Trocoli on Saturday evening at T-Mobile Arena, early in the UFC 323 preliminary card slate. “I cannot wait to get in that Octagon. I cannot wait to wipe my feet on that canvas. I cannot wait to look up at the lights, take a deep breath, and know that I’m home.

From the time Abdul-Malik punched his ticket to the UFC with a second-round stoppage win over Wes Schultz to close out the opening week on Season 8 of the Contender Series, the man at the helm of the XC ship has been singing his charge’s praises, playfully ribbing the 28-year-old about his singular devotion to the sport and complete lack of interest in anything else.

Given that he’s officially in Year 2 on the UFC roster — his promotional debut took place on November 9, 2024 — the freshman-to-sophomore step-up is apt and again fits with not only what is on tap this weekend, but what preceded Saturday’s clash with Trocoli at UFC 323 as well.

Paired off with Cody Brundage in June when the UFC ventured to State Farm Arena in Atlanta, Abdul-Malik dropped the opening round to the more seasoned Factory X Muay Thai representative, but drew level in the middle frame, leaving the outcome hanging in the balance heading into the third. The promising 185-pound prospect came out of the corner hot and took the fight to Brundage, who planted his feet, happy to exchange before Abdul-Malik crashed forward, seemingly stunning his opponent and pounding out a finish.

Replays showed that an accidental clash of heads occurred, prompting Brundage to fall to the canvas and cover up, leaving him unable to continue. Initially, the bout was scored as a victory for the DWCS grad, only for the result to eventually be shifted to a draw after it was determined that the partial third round should not have been scored by the judges according to Georgia Athletic and Entertainment Commission rules.