
"The things I went through, things that I saw as a kid. And my mom moved us away from the Seattle area to the Sacramento area. And I'm very fortunate to have grown up in Sacramento and around Sacramento, and I'm very happy to be back here.

"This is still a part of me. This place has a part of my heart. Even driving into the city, you get that feeling of, I'm home. The King has returned. The prodigal son.

"I pulled up in the city, and it felt like home. There's certain places that are just a part of you, and there's certain places that are in your blood. And Northern California is one of those places for me. Hawaii is one of those places for me. And the Pacific Northwest is one of those places for me.

"So when I got here, I just took a big breath, and I felt a serene feeling. I have memories driving into Seattle. I have memories of different places, and I'm with my team, and I'm pointing things out. I remember being here as a kid, and I remember seeing this.

"Not every memory I have from up here is good, but there are still good memories up here. My grandma is 20 minutes from here. I'm gonna sneak away and go see her, and she's my favorite person in the world. So I have a lot of good memories up here, too.

"I have so many emotions, honestly, and they're all good. Mostly, I'm grateful. I'm immensely grateful for this opportunity, and to be back in this place and to make my people proud."

"My baby's not even here yet, but being a dad, expecting to be a dad, I've never felt more emotional in my life, and I'm enjoying it.

"Everything comes full circle. When I left here, I was an angry kid who was dealing with a lot of things that he didn't quite understand. And now I'm back as a man that I'm proud of, and I have a son on the way, and I've broken the cycle, and I have changed the course of my family's history. And, on Saturday night, I get to go do what I love and continue on that journey.

"It's bigger than me, and there's a liberating feeling when it's not about you anymore. There's just a feeling. There's a feeling that that as soon as I found out I was going to be a dad, I just was overcome with the feeling of – I don't even know what to call it – it's like a freedom.

"It's not about me. It's about something bigger than me. And I'd like to think it always was about something bigger than me, but having a kid on the way puts everything in perspective. Everything else, every other motivation before this, feels kind of trivial, and now my motivation is skyrocketing. My motivation, it's like rocket fuel to provide the best life I can for my son. I got chills talking about it."

"There's a lot of people in this sport who are playing a character, and there's a lot of people who are sort of, even if their character is rooted in some truth, they're really fabricating a lot of who they are.

"I'm going to win my fight Saturday night here in Seattle, in spectacular fashion. I'm gonna get my hand raised Saturday night. I'm gonna collect three checks for my performance. I'm gonna go home, and I'm going to spend all of spring nesting with my beautiful wife and getting prepared to be the best father in the world.

"And, in April, my baby boy will be here. And by summer, I'll be moving back to Sacramento and everything will be right with the world. Everything will be beautiful."