
“There is always a 50 percent chance you may lose, particularly in this sport, and it’s humbling. It’s a lot of different emotions, but it’s also motivating.”

For the former champion, it’s not only an opportunity to get back into the win column against a Top 10 competitor, but also another chance to measure himself against one of the division’s best, and make another assessment of where he’s at and whether he wants to continue making the walk to the Octagon going forward.

“Nobody wants to continue losing,” Cejudo said, smiling. “But sometimes failure is not a bad thing because it’s also an indicator that lets you know, ‘Hey man, it’s time to move on.’

“I’m not one of these guys that’s gonna hold on forever; I’m not a jealous ex-girlfriend. I think I’ve done some amazing things in combat sports, period, but (the position I’m in) is bittersweet, to say the least.

“Everything is at stake, man,” continued the always engaging Fight Ready standout. “In every single fight that you compete in, everything is always at stake because people always recognize you according to your last fight. Your last fight is what defines you, typically, so there is so much at stake in the sense where…”

“It doesn’t matter how great camp has gone or anything like that; you’ve got to be able to see the results in the Octagon. Who is gonna get their hand raised? How did you look? How did you feel? Is your heart still 100 percent in it?

“There is a lot at stake, in that sense, but I think the cool thing about my career is that I will forever go down as one of the greatest combat athletes of all time, reigning in two different sports. I never thought that I would be competing this late in my career, but I’m also grateful for it because I’m using half of my life to where I can say, ‘Keep going until you fall out of love with it or your body falls out.’

If all that sounds like a man who has made peace with this being the end of the line, your read wouldn’t necessarily be wrong, but it also doesn’t mean Cejudo is poised to pack it in come Saturday evening, as well.

The truth is that for as much as he now spends a ton of time breaking down other competitors and analyzing their performances, the Arizona-based superstar is most critical of his own efforts and commits as much time — if not more — to breaking down his own game and giving an honest assessment of his place in the division.

“One hundred percent — that’s where my mind is taking me and my body still feels good, so one hundred percent I do think it’s doable,” Cejudo said in regard to potentially chasing down the title and physically feeling able to do so. “But talking is one thing; backing it up with action is another, and I’ve always been a person that has held myself accountable.

“As much as I critique others through my channels, I’m my No.1 fan and my worst critic; I give it to myself, too. I think that’s what has made me successful is that there is a real honesty to me, I’m able to be real honest with myself, and for that reason, I’m able to let things fly and go after it; take risks.

“That’s how I feel for this fight.”

He’s also spurred on by the dangerous opponent that will be standing across from him this weekend inside Climate Pledge Arena, as he too touches down in Seattle with something to prove on Saturday night.

“So after I get done with this, it’s gonna be on to the next one. This is my last chance of going for the title, and it’s all or nothing.”

And with that in mind, he’s not ruling out any possibilities when it comes to figuring out a path back to UFC gold.

“I would love to find an opponent that could get me to the title. You’ve got to remember, too, that I reigned over two divisions at one point, so I’m not opting out of 125 pounds either, but I do have my eyes set on Song.

“I’ve gotta get back into the win column, and then it’s consistency,” he added. “Take some time, take the family out, do my thing, and then get back to work again.”