Henry Cejudo pressed pause on his MMA career while still at the peak of his powers, fresh off successfully defending his UFC bantamweight title with a second-round stoppage win over Dominick Cruz. He was a two-weight world champion and Olympic gold medalist — “Triple C,” one of the greatest combat sports athletes of all time — and he decided to take a sabbatical.

When he returned three days shy of three years later, he walked right into a bantamweight title fight with then-champion Aljamain Sterling, looking to reclaim the throne he had previously abdicated and the title he never lost in competition, but it wasn’t meant to be. After dropping a split decision to Sterling at UFC 288, he returned against the champion’s close friend and divisional standout Merab Dvalishvili at UFC 298, losing this time by an even wider margin.

“F***, it’s a chip on my shoulder,” Cejudo said when asked about his struggles since returning. “I mean, nobody wants to make ‘the greatest comeback of all time’ and you’re f***ing 0-2, but it’s part of the game.

The 38-year-old has used these setbacks to fuel his preparations for Saturday’s main event showdown with Song Yadong in Seattle, a fight that both makes a great deal of sense from a divisional standpoint, and is of massive importance for each of its two principals.

“There’s a lot at stake, but I’m just grateful; I’m grateful to compete in a big arena, main event against Song.”

Heading into this weekend’s matchup with Song, everything feels as it should, feels like it did when he was winning and defending world titles and standing triumphant as a two-weight world champion, but the critical veteran knows that how he feels in the gym, going through camp, is not how to gauge where he stands.

Now in his eighth year on the UFC roster, Song has been a mainstay in the Top 15 for the last several years, but stumbled in his first two opportunities to climb into title contention, first losing to Cory Sandhagen after a gnarly cut forced their entertaining clash to be halted before the start of the fifth round, and then most recently dropping a decision to ex-titleholder Petr Yan last March at UFC 299.

In each instance, the 27-year-old from Heilongjiang, China had positive moments and showed that he’s a bona fide Top 10 talent, but, at the same time, he was clearly a step behind the pair that once faced each other for the interim title and remain fixtures in the title conversation in the 135-pound weight class.

While Cejudo is looking to prove to himself that he is still capable of toppling a talented fighter like Song, the gifted “Kung Fu Kid” will be out to show that he can beat one of the division’s elite and is himself ready to be included in those top-end discussions about what comes next in the bantamweight ranks.

It’s strange to suggest that a fighter that once held UFC titles in two weight classes simultaneously could be at a major career crossroads just one fight removed from challenging for the title, but that’s truthfully where Cejudo stands at this moment.

His triumphant return has yet to produce a triumph inside the Octagon, and he’s set to step in with a talented opponent more than a decade his junior, hoping to prove to himself more than anyone else that he still has what it takes to compete at the highest levels of the sport, because that’s the only place he wants to be.

Which is why it wasn’t surprising that when asked how good it will feel to earn a victory, to translate those weeks of strong effort in the gym into tangible results on Saturday, Cejudo acknowledged that he’s already thinking about the opportunities a win this weekend could bring him later in the year.

“It’s gonna feel good, but the job’s not done,” he said. “What was that quote when they asked Tom Brady, ‘Which one is your favorite Super Bowl win?’ He said, ‘the next one,’ and obviously I’m not looking past Song by any means — that dude can put anyone out if they’re not careful — but I also believe in my abilities and skills.