
“If we include the Contender Series fight, this is fight number 10 in UFC. So yeah, it feels good to [build my] career here. It feels good just piling up those fights and giving good performances.”

“Everything wasn’t going my way, and the fight wasn’t any different than that. Soafter that, I changed [things]. I have a new team. I opened up my own gym, I have a new coach and new guys to work with. This camp felt really good, and I believe it’s going to be a positive outcome this time.

“This camp went really good. As I said, I have a really positive feeling about the outcome and everything we've done, so it does feel a lot better than before.”

“Before” referred to a nightmare run of injuries that saw both knees require reconstructive surgery – one due to an in-fight injury against Duncan, the other due to being hit by a car.

“It’s tough to process all that and just walk through the process all over again. It was tough, but we pulled through, and I believe good things are coming now.

“Even when things don't go my way, I still try to see where I made the mistakes prior to that fight, prior to the injury, and we tried to fix it up so it doesn't happen again. I believe all those setbacks have made a positive impact on my future career.”

“It means overcoming all those setbacks, overcoming all the hardships, and some of the stuff only myself and few other people know I've been through. So it's going to be a big thing for me, a big thing for my club, for my gym, for my country. So yeah, I'm really looking forward to it.”

“It would be huge. Recently in Serbia, Arena Fight TV started collaborating with UFC, so they have their own UFC Instagram channel. They promote events together. And also my colleagues, Alexander Rakic, who was one of my training partners for this fight. [There’s] also, Uros Medic, and lots of fighters who are up and coming.

“I believe in two, three years, we're going to have lot more UFC fighters. And it just brings a dose of excitement for what’s gonna come. So, yeah, it definitely feelsgood. And I think good things are coming to Serbia, and maybe even an event there. People there are crazy about MMA, so it would make sense to do that. So yeah, it starts with me, and let’s cross our fingers!”