
“It’s hard when you come in with a long win streak (and start losing), especially for me — it really gave me a hit to my confidence, and it took me a while to build it back up,” continued the sincere middleweight, who arrived in the UFC on a 10-fight winning streak and brandishing a 13-1 record before suffering three straight losses to begin his time on the roster. “I feel like I’m in a really good place now and I’m trying to move forward, do what I can. I feel good — I feel like I’m in my prime, both skill-wise and mentally.

“It’s now or never,” he added. “If I’m going to really make a run in the UFC, show what I can do, and really make a name for myself, now is the time to do it, so I’m trying to grab that opportunity and really run with it.”

That “now or never” nature of things isn’t something most competitors are quick to acknowledge, let alone speak about in detail. Most will tell you that success is just around the corner, and even if there have been multiple missteps or setbacks, the next fight is always the one that is going to kickstart the march to the top of the division they were always meant to embark upon.

As someone that has admittedly struggled with nerves and anxiety throughout his UFC career, I asked the middleweight with a Master’s degree in translation how he’s been handling the weight that comes with being in the position he’s in right now.

"I’m just trying to see it like that and move forward, stay positive, and really go in there and have fun again.”

“I suppose I’ll tell you when I get there,” he said with a laugh and a smile. “It’s a work in progress. It’s different every time, you’re a different person every time — I can feel great on fight week, and then all of a sudden those nerves come and I’m like, ‘Where did this all come from?’ It’s often just in that walk-out whether those nerves go away or not.

“I don’t think there is a simple answer to it,” Stoltzfus added in regard to addressing the nerves and seeking to avoid those nights where they limit one’s ability inside the Octagon. “I wish I could give one, for myself and for people who are coming up in the sport. I wish there was an easy answer, but it’s hard.

"It would be nice if there were easy answers in life, but usually there aren’t.”

“We jumped on it: threw everything to the side and had a flight booked for two days after that; just dropped everything and started preparing.”

“Up to this point, it’s been great — it’s not given me too much time to ruminate over things, stress over things. The fight’s a couple days away and I still feel like, ‘Oh, I’ll fight eventually.’ It’s around the corner now, and I feel a lot lighter, a lot more relaxed, so that’s nice.”

He paused and chuckled to this himself before adding, “Though, at this point, I probably should start ruminating a little.”

Whether the rumination comes or it doesn’t, the tenured middleweight heads into the weekend focused on having the kind of performance that showcases his entire tool kit and allows him to exit the Octagon happy with his efforts, regardless of the result.

“I’m more of a training-focused person in general, so it’s always super-disappointing when you know you did all this work and the results are not showing up. So, for me, every fight is let’s go in there and show what I can do, what I’ve been working on, and if I can do that, I’m happy, win, lose, or draw. So that’s the main thing: go in there and do what I know I can do, what my coaches know I can do, what my training partners know I can do.

“A win and a finish is always what I’m looking for,” he added, shifting his focus specifically to Saturday night and the man that will stand across from him. “I feel confident everywhere. It’s no secret that I’m a grappler, but my striking has been getting a lot more competent, which is what was holding me back a lot. I feel like I can hang with him on the feet, and if it goes to the ground, he’s in trouble.”