It’s been five years and one month since Dustin Stoltzfus earned his UFC contract with an injury-stoppage win over Joe Pyfer on the fourth season of Dana White’s Contender Series. Remembered largely for the horrific arm injury Pyfer suffered, the four-minute-and-change skirmish also showcased the upside Stoltzfus brought to the table as well, with the Germany-based American displaying his active guard while creating the scramble that eventually led to his wrestling up, elevating Pyfer, and things ending the way they did.

This weekend, Stoltzfus makes his tenth trek into the Octagon in a clash with Kelvin Gastelum on the main card of Saturday’s Noche UFC event in San Antonio, Texas. With the fight in the offing and five years behind him, the 33-year-old DWCS grad candidly reflected on the journey to Frost Bank Center this weekend and the urgency with which he’s approaching this fight.

“I’d be lying if I said it’s gone the way I wanted or even the way it could have gone,” began Stoltzfus, who has gone 3-6 over his first nine UFC appearances, having alternated wins and losses over his last six contests heading into his bout against the former interim title challenger. “In a lot of ways, it’s been a bit of a disappointment; some factors are mistakes I’ve made, and some things that I couldn’t control. I could have done a lot better and now I’m building up my confidence again.

But just as he was honest and open with his assessment of how things have gone to date, Stoltzfus was frank about the reality of his situation heading into Saturday night, correctly recognizing and clearly acknowledging that a win over Gastelum could, in fact, be the victory that gets the ball rolling for him, while silently making clear that he knows the potential downside of another defeat.

“It’s that dichotomy that we sort of mentioned,” began Stoltzfus, who earned Performance of the Night bonuses in each of his last two wins, first-round finishes of Punahele Soriano and Marc-Andre Barriault that came on either side of a loss to Brunno Ferreira. “I can either let it pressure me and put me under additional stress, like I had been doing earlier in my career, or I can see it as a privilege and just think, ‘What an amazing opportunity I have to be here — the biggest show on Earth — competing against a guy like Gastelum that has been in the company for so long, done such great things.’ And to know in my heart of hearts that I can go in there and win, so what an amazing opportunity.

So how does Stoltzfus steer his mind away from the former and towards the latter?

Ironically, there was an easy answer for Stoltzfus recently, and it came when he got opportunity to step in with Gastelum this weekend.

“It’s the reason we took the fight,” he said when asked about sharing the Octagon with the recent UFC Hall of Fame inductee. “I have a lot going on right now in my personal and professional life outside of the UFC, so I was not looking to fight for another couple of months, but when they put Kelvin Gastelum on the table in front of you, it’s ‘This is a big name, this is a good fight — a winnable fight — and something you can’t ignore.’

In an interesting twist, audibling on the timeline they had in mind for a return to action and quickly diving into preparations for Gastelum have — to the point of our conversation — kept Stoltzfus fixating on anything other than getting ready.

“It’s been a bit of a whirlwind,” began Stoltzfus. “It wasn’t what we expected, it wasn’t the timeline we were planning on, but I think we’re ready. I think it’s been good. It’s been a nice change from where maybe the long camps have been too much.

Not that he’s thinking about anything other than getting himself back into the win column and handing Gastelum a second consecutive loss.