
Bantamweight mainstays Yana Santos and Miesha Tate share the Octagon in one of three women’s bouts on Saturday’s fight card.

Santos returns to action for the first time since August, when she dominated her bout with Chelsea Chandler and halted a three-fight slide. The 35-year-old veteran has faced a host of contenders and has been a staple in the Top 15 throughout her UFC tenure, and has historically earned victories in pairs; a trend she will look to continue this weekend.

Tate competes for the first time since earning a third-round submission win over Julia Avila in early December 2023 in Austin, Texas, a victory that ended a two-fight skid. The former bantamweight titleholder is 2-2 since returning to active competition, and can elevate herself back into the Top 10 in the division she once ruled with a victory over Santos.

It’s been a bit of a quiet year in the women’s bantamweight ranks to this point, but things are set to heat up in the next few weeks, and it will be interesting to see how everything lines up once the dust settles. Each of these women has the credentials to make a push for a bigger opportunity next time out or could serve as tremendous “measuring stick” opponents for any of the ascending names in the division looking to take another step forward in the second half of the year.

It’s a clash of ranked strawweights on Saturday’s prelims as Marina Rodriguez takes on the streaking Gillian Robertson.

A top contender for a number of years, Rodriguez, who turns 38 on April 29, enters having dropped each of her last two outings by split decision, and having just one win in her last five fights. Conversely, Robertson arrives in Iowa on the best run of her UFC career, having earned three straight wins and victories in four of five since returning to the 115-pound weight class at the start of 2023.

TUF 30 winner Juliana Miller returns to action for the first time in 21 months, facing off with Ivana Petrovic in Saturday’s opener.

The 28-year-old Miller hasn’t fought since August 2023 after having major arm surgery following her first-round stoppage loss to Luana Santos. Petrovic earned her first UFC win last April, but landed on the wrong side of a split decision verdict against Jamey-Lyn Horth in November to fall to 7-2 overall.