
For the first of this weekend’s twin title fights at UFC 315, Kyte sat down with Xtreme Couture MMA coach Eddie Barraco to break down what could transpire when Valentina Shevchenko begins her second reign as a flyweight champion in a fascinating matchup with French challenger Manon Fiorot.

Kyte: All right Coach, let’s do this — what’s the best trait of Valentina Shevchenko and what’s the best trait of Manon Fiorot?

Barraco: Shevchenko, for me, it’s her Fight IQ.

She has tons of experience, title defenses, five-round fights. I think her Fight IQ and her versatility are the biggest things. She’s super-cerebral, and her ability to adjust mid-fight — to read patterns and adjust to those things — are huge. For this one especially, I think being able to mix her striking with her grappling fluidly is something that will give her a well-rounded edge here.

With Fiorot, she does a really good job with distance management and striking volume. If you look at her last fight, it was like 181 total strikes; that’s good volume.

I think she’s good at keeping opponents at the end of her strikes, using her range, and her footwork, combined with the distance control and high output striking, is what has made her frustrating for other fighters to try and solve.

Kyte: I agree with you completely on the Shevchenko front, and I think we saw that even more so in the last fight with Grasso in September.

She’s at that point now where she’s just happy to go out and win however she has to win. I think that draw with Alexa changed everything for her. I think it was a case of “these judges screwed me, I should have been champ, now I’ve gotta wait to do this whenever, and I’m just gonna go out and beat you where I know I can beat you without much trouble, and I’m gonna wrestle you into oblivion.”

Kyte: And then on the Fiorot front — I agree with you about her ability to use the range and the volume — the other part for me is that she’s just a big, physically strong fighter.

Barraco: I agree completely, and it’s gonna be a test to see what Valentina is able to do with somebody her size. It’s gonna be interesting.

Barraco: For Valentina, I think her tactical grappling and finding her counters amidst all the volume (is the path to victory).

If she can slow down Fiorot’s pace, take away her rhythm, and then win the exchanges — even if it’s at the end of the exchanges — with those well-timed counters and takedowns, that’ll be really important. I think being able to control her on the ground and positional dominance will be the biggest key because she doesn’t have to go in there trying to get crazy subs; if she can go in there and control the position, have some damage there, I think that’s the easiest path to victory.

For Manon, I think it’s pressure and range striking.

She can’t take her foot off the gas, backpedal the whole time and try to avoid her, not that I think she’s gonna try to. But I think pressure, range striking, maintaining her lateral movement, andracking up the volume she typically does are super-important. Avoiding the clinch and ground engagements will be a good thing for her, too.

Those are gonna be her keys.

Kyte: I’m trying to think of the fight this needs to be for Shevchenko in terms of her previous opponents, previous fights, and how she’s beaten them, and I don’t know that there is really a comp in terms of bigger, stronger opponents.

Liz Carmouche is a wrestler, so that was kind of a methodical kickboxing match. Jennifer Maia is a good grappler, and that was a little bit of everything, where Jen won a round and everyone freaked out about that, but there’s not really a comp here.

Maybe the Taila Santos fight, but I don’t think she wants that to be her comp here because she maybe kinda lost that fight, or at the very least it was crazy-close.

Kyte: Whereas for Fiorot, she’s been so good that we haven’t really seen her in those spots where there is too much to draw on when you’re thinking about tough spots in a fight.

Kyte: And part of that is because she uses her size well. Erin Blanchfield couldn’t get close to taking her down, and Erin is a very good grappler.I think this is where what you’re saying about Valentina’s wrestling and timely takedowns being super-important comes in. Can she get you coming in? Can she hit you with something and run you down? Get you backing up and changing levels?

Barraco: I think for Valentina, her experience in five-round wars is a huge one, and with that, her ability to calm under pressure, which we’ve already seen from her plenty. I think if the fight goes deep, Valentina’s championship mettle could really shine there, especially if she’s putting Fiorot in unfamiliar waters.

Like you just said: we haven’t seen a lot of the positions and spots that maybe she is gonna be put in in this fight, so we don’t know how she’s going to be responding. And if Valentina is taking her to those unfamiliar waters, how is she going to respond? We don’t know.

For Manon, it’s her relentless pace and her physicality, which we’ve mentioned a couple times; her being a bigger fighter for the weight. If she can exert that, maybe we see Valentina not responding to it as well as we think she will; that would be a huge factor for her.

She could push a pace that forces Valentina to fight reactively, on the back-pedal — that’s not somewhere she’s usually at, so I would try to dictate that pace and possibly steal rounds that way.

I do agree with you on the Fiorot point about can she make Val go backwards and be the aggressor in there. The thing that I’m really interested in is the weight cut and time off because Fiorot hasn’t fought in 14, 15 months and you’ve got to get to 125.0 pounds on the scale; there are no allowances.

Barraco: So I have three points of interest for Valentina, which are how she’s gonna time her counters against the volume-heavy combos, whether she shoots for takedowns early in the fight to slow the tempo, and her ability to adapt mid-fight to the footwork and the angles of her opponent.

Those are the things I have. I wanna see how she deals with the volume: is she going to look for striking combos or the moments to shoot off those combos and exchanges? How she’s going to not be moving backwards and how she’s going to assert her dominance in that one?

For Fiorot, I have discipline in avoiding the clinch and prolonged exchanges. I think with her ability, it should be she strikes, she moves, she strikes, she moves, and if she doesn’t get moving backwards in a straight line for too long.

I wanna see how she deals with Valentina’s feints and traps. I think she (Shevchenko) has some of the best striking in the division, and I think her experience in striking, using her feints and her traps, getting people to put their hands where she wants them to go, like how she fought Jessica (Eye), right — body kick, body kick, body kick, head kick. I wanna she how her opponent can deal with that.

And then whether she can maintain her pace over those five rounds against somebody that is a counter-heavy opponent. Volume for three rounds versus volume for five rounds, with some time off, getting pressured, if she’s getting into some clinch exchanges — how is all that going to wear on her as far as her ability to push that pace and volume?

Kyte: I didn’t realize her stats were as high as they are. I’ve got them up here and she’s landing 6.25 significant strikes per minute; that’s a lot.

Kyte: You go through and it’s not just the early fights where she was blowing people out either. She was putting up those numbers against Mayra Bueno Silva too. She’s putting them up against everyone she’s fought.

She’s just coming with a lot.

Barraco: Looking at her stats is crazy. She’s doing it all.

Kyte: The other thing for me, and I hate being this guy, but it’s just one of those things: Valentina turned 37 a couple months ago, and she’s been able to get away with it because Alexa made the absolute most of that first fight, had the situation read and capitalized, but she got a gift in the second fight with the draw, and then had nothing for her in the third fight, and I think that has allowed us to kind of forget that these have been four fights now for Shevchenko where it hasn’t been the same Shevchenko we’re used to.

And I just wonder is she 90 percent of who she was at her peak? 85 percent? Maybe that’s still enough to win and her 85 percent is better than everyone else, but Fiorot feels like a real good test of that.