
One way or another, you’re going to feel something when Silva fights.

One way or another, you’re going to feel something when Silva fights.

It helps, of course, that Silva is absolutely steamrolling his opponents in the talent-rich featherweight division.

After securing his contract via the lone decision win on his professional record, Silva promptly got back to his finishing ways. First came a first-round TKO victory over Westin Wilson that saw the Brazilian brutalize the American for as long as the fight lasted. Silva was scheduled to follow-up that performance with a bout in Rio de Janeiro alongside Ruffy until his opponent, William Gomis, was forced to pull out and the fight was scrapped.

Silva’s sophomore appearance would instead come at the end of International Fight Week at UFC 303 against the dynamic Charles Jourdain. While the Canadian did his best to stifle Silva, who did miss weight ahead of the fight, Silva found his opening in the second round and delivered a thunderous uppercut to earn another knockout win.

As if to say that performance wasn’t satisfactory, Silva returned two weeks later to fight Drew Dober in a lightweight bout in Dober’s hometown of Denver. Over the course of 11-and-a-half exhilarating minutes, Silva showed he could not only go shot-for-shot with the division’s knockout leader, but do one better and cause enough damage to get the doctor’s stoppage.

Determined to leave the mishaps on the scale in the past, Silva spent plenty of time working with the UFC Performance Institute to nail down the weight cut, and he returned in peak condition at UFC Fight Night: Cejudo vs Song in Seattle to open up his 2025 account. There, he faced fellow striking savant Melsik Baghdasaryan and happily dispatched him inside the first frame. Silva’s friendly antics continued to polarize, but he showed he wasn’t anything close to distracted when he followed another high-five with Baghdasaryan almost immediately with a knockdown which started the finishing sequence.

The bout catapulted Silva into the top-10 and have some wondering if he could secure a title shot with his first main event opportunity against Diego Lopes.

That matchup, which headlines Noche UFC in San Antonio, is one that screams barnburner. Lopes doesn’t often take steps backward, and Silva seems more than happy to engage in such a fight. With the featherweight title picture somewhat up in the air beyond Lerone Murphy, a statement-making victory on September 13 could very well put Silva in prime position to challenge for the belt next year.

That matchup, which headlines Noche UFC in San Antonio, is one that screams barnburner. Lopes doesn’t often take steps backward, and Silva seems more than happy to engage in such a fight. With the featherweight title picture somewhat up in the air beyond Lerone Murphy, a statement-making victory on September 13 could very well put Silva in prime position to challenge for the belt next year.