
Brazilian contenders meet in the middle of the UFC 313 main card as Amanda Lemos takes on Iasmin Lucindo in a classic match between a veteran and a prospect.

Lemos has split a pair of appearances since coming up short in her bid to unseat Zhang Weili from the strawweight throne at UFC 292 two summers back, out-hustling Mackenzie Dern last February before getting submitted by Virna Jandiroba. The 37-year-old has shown fight-changing power and a somewhat rare finishing ability for the weight class in the past, and should look to lean on her experience advantage to hold off the advances of her younger compatriot when they cross paths in Las Vegas later this month.

Having just turned 23, Lucindo is the youngest female fighter on the roster and one of the five youngest competitors in the UFC right now, which makes the fact that she’s already a Top 10 fighter in the 115-pound weight class all the more impressive. She’s earned four straight victories since dropping a competitive fight with Yazmin Jauregui in her promotional debut, most recently edging out Marina Rodriguez.

Will the tenured veteran turn back the surging prospect or will Lucindo maintain her winning ways and force her way into the Top 5?

Edwards looked listless in his loss to Belal Muhammad last July — like he couldn’t get out of first gear and had no answers for the relentless pressure and pace of the challenger. Now, “Rocky” has the opportunity to show that he’s still very much a presence in the title picture with a fight in familiar surroundings, fighting in a city where he’s gone 4-0 in the UFC and 5-0 for his career.

This is a massive fight for both men as each enters facing serious questions. Edwards needs to show he can fight with a greater sense of urgency or risk being swept aside by the rising tide in the division he once ruled, while Brady has to prove he can get by top-tier talents and stay healthy in order to make the most of it. No matter how it plays out, this one will have a significant impact on the landscape of the welterweight division going forward.