
Argentinian rookie Kevin Vallejos opened the main card with a first-round stoppage win over SeungWoo Choi before Brendson Ribeiro and Da’Mon Blackshear earned consecutive submission wins by kimura, tapping out Diyar Nurgozhay and Cody Gibson respectively. After Alexander Hernandez and Kurt Holobaugh paired off for an fun tussle in the 155-pound ranks, Chidi Njokuani took the judges out of his fight with Elizeu Zaleski dos Santos, finishing him with a well-timed knee up the middle a couple minutes into the second round.

In the main event, Roman Dolidze gained a measure of revenge over Marvin Vettori, pushing the action and out-striking the returning Italian down the stretch to salt away his third straight victory.

Chidi Njokuani continued his impressive run since moving to welterweight, stopping veteran Elizeu Zaleski dos Santos in Saturday’s co-main event.

Following a first round where the dueling strikers each had their moments, Njokuani started to get the better of things in the second, interrupting dos Santos’ timing with inside kicks each time he came forward.

Later in the frame, as the Brazilian looked to close the distance, Njokuani drove a knee up the middle that found the chin, sending dos Santos crashing to the canvas, opening the door for the former middleweight to collect the finish.

Alexander Hernandez and Kurt Holobaugh paired off to deliver a non-stop battle in the lightweight division midway through Saturday’s main card.

Both men had positive moments in each of the first two rounds, with Hernandez looking sharp in the opening half of the first and back half of the second, and Holobaugh dictating the action in the middle.

Hernandez showed a sharp understanding of the situation in the third, putting Holobaugh on the deck twice, working from top position while effectively muting the Louisiana native’s offensive output.

Da’Mon Blackshear took a minute to get warmed into his clash with Cody Gibson, but once he did “Da Monster” dominated, finishing things with a second-round kimura finish.

Brendson Ribeiro bounced Diyar Nurgozhay from the ranks of the unbeaten, tapping out the new arrival with a kimura in the second round.

Welcome to the UFC, Kevin Vallejos!