The ninth season of Dana White's Contender Series kicked off on Tuesday evening at the UFC APEX, as the next wave of hopefuls looked to follow the path blazed by dozens of standouts over the last several years from Tuesday night in Las Vegas to taking on the best in the world inside the UFC Octagon.

It was a strange night to kick things off, and we’ve got the details on how things played out collected for you below.

This page will be updated live throughout the night with full fight recaps, scorecards, plus interviews with Dana White and tonight’s contract winners.

The featured bout between Ilian Bouafia and Neemias Santana started with a little controversy and morphed into a stunted clash between two clearly talented, but often hesitant middleweight prospects.

Early in the first round, Santana took Bouafia to the ground, where he promptly headbutted the Algerian-born prospect. Referee Jason Herzog paused the action and took a point, giving Bouafia time to recover before the fight resumed.

From the time the fight restarted, the duo vacillated between long periods of not really engaging and short bursts of offense. Santana landed a little more while trying to goad Bouafia into engaging, while the Paris-based youngster countered with solid variety, but very limited output.

When the scores were added up, it was Bouafia who came out ahead, earning a clean sweep of the scorecards. He maintains his unbeaten record and clearly has upside, but it will be interesting to hear Dana White’s thoughts on the bout and where he sees Bouafia.

Yuri Panferov turned his second appearance on Dana White’s Contender Series into a triumphant one, mixing things up well to get the better of Chilean mauler Chris Ewert in an all-out brawl to open the season.

Early in the fight, it was Panferov’s speed and diversity with his boxing that got the better of things as he touched up Ewert to the body, opening the door to land upstairs. He shifted to his wrestling in the back half of the round and worked to replicate that effort the rest of the way, having similar success in the second before things got a little more competitive in the third.

Now we wait to see if he’ll pick up a contract at the end of the night.