
Last year, 42 competitors garnered contracts across the season’s 10 events, with winners like Mansur Abdul-Malik, Jose Delgado, and Malcolm Wellmaker already having made a serious impact since transitioning onto the roster. To date, 276 athletes heard UFC President Dana White call their names at the end of the night, with another 11 joining those ranks through a three-event, all-Brazilian miniseries in 2018, and this evening, 10 more athletes across three divisions made the walk in hopes of being the first members of the DWCS Class of ’25.

It didn’t take White long to make his decisions for Week 1 and much like on Season 6, the UFC President came out hot, calling it a weird night before offering his assessments of Tuesday’s victors. After passing on both Yuri Panferov and Radley Da Silva, White welcomed Ty Miller to the UFC roster, suggesting he make a trip to the UFC PI, before stating that he had the fight between Ilian Bouafia and Neemias Santana a draw, declining to offer Bouafia a contract.

Baisangur Susurkaev scored the first finish of the season, folding Murtaza Talha with a teep kick to the midsection in the opening round of Tuesday’s third bout.

Talha, who competed at light heavyweight two seasons ago, losing to Rodolfo Bellato, began the fight by catching a kick, closing the distance and looking to keep Susurkaev stapled to the fence. But the Chechen middleweight worked free and once they were into space, he got after Talha, hitting him with open-handed strikes to the side of the head before delivering a front kick to the bread basket that immediately ended the fight.

This was an impressive finish from the undefeated prospect, who prepared for this one alongside a host of UFC standouts at Kill Cliff FC in South Florida. Now 9-0 as a professional, this was a massive win for “Hunter.”

BFL featherweight champ Radley Da Silva handed Australian prospect George Mangos the first loss of his professional career on Tuesday, grinding out the first two rounds before surviving for much of the final frame.

Da Silva had an easy time taking Mangos to the canvas in each of the first two rounds, reading and reacting to the 21-year-old’s scrambles and attacks to keep him stapled to the canvas, though he failed to register any meaningful damage. Mangos was able to get on the offensive in the third, working to Da Silva’s back and threatening with chokes while landing a smattering of strikes, only to fall short of finding the finish.

All three judges scored the fight the same, giving Da Silva the first two rounds, awarding the Vancouver native his eighth straight victory. It’s a quality win over a promising, young fighter, but it remains to be seen if it’s going to be enough to secure the opportunity to compete at the next level next time out.

Yuri Panferov turned his second appearance on Dana White’s Contender Series into a triumphant one, mixing things up well to get the better of Chilean mauler Chris Ewert in an all-out brawl to open the season.

Early in the fight, it was Panferov’s speed and diversity with his boxing that got the better of things as he touched up Ewert to the body, opening the door to land upstairs. He shifted to his wrestling in the back half of the round and worked to replicate that effort the rest of the way, having similar success in the second before things got a little more competitive in the third.

The middleweight bangers went the distance, but the outcome was never in doubt, as all three judges scored the fight in favor of Panferov. After starting quickly and suffering a loss to Torrez Finney in his first appearance, “The Russian Polar Bear” picked up the win to start Season 9.

Now we wait to see if he’ll pick up a contract at the end of the night.