
He then circled back to Baisangur Suserkaev, singing the unbeaten Chechen middleweight prospect’s praises, saying that he saved the first episode of Season 9 while promising to get him booked quickly.

Ty Miller stayed fluid and snappy behind his long punches, steadily piling up the damage against tough Yonkers native Jimmy Drago in Tuesday’s penultimate matchup.

It took a couple minutes — and one clean shot from Drago — for the undefeated FitNHB representative to settle into the fight, but once he did, the 25-year-old really started to showcase his hands. Throwing in combination and frequently stinging Drago, Miller displayed excellent poise and patience, only ramping up the output once he clearly had his durable opponent hurt.

Though he wasn’t able to get a finish, Miller clearly dominated the action the whole way through, earning a sweep of the scorecards and an impressive victory to remain undefeated. He’s got an exciting style and an unblemished record with plenty of room for growth ahead of him, so it will be interesting to see if this effort is enough to garner Miller a contract at the end of the night.

BFL featherweight champ Radley Da Silva handed Australian prospect George Mangos the first loss of his professional career on Tuesday, grinding out the first two rounds before surviving for much of the final frame.

Da Silva had an easy time taking Mangos to the canvas in each of the first two rounds, reading and reacting to the 21-year-old’s scrambles and attacks to keep him stapled to the canvas, though he failed to register any meaningful damage. Mangos was able to get on the offensive in the third, working to Da Silva’s back and threatening with chokes while landing a smattering of strikes, only to fall short of finding the finish.

All three judges scored the fight the same, giving Da Silva the first two rounds, awarding the Vancouver native his eighth straight victory. It’s a quality win over a promising, young fighter, but it remains to be seen if it’s going to be enough to secure the opportunity to compete at the next level next time out.