Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

It’s kind of what Strickland was first, right?

Kyte: Right! It was “Oh, you do weird and awkward and hard to deal with? Watch this!”

Marshall: And I’m a bigger bully than you are. I’m more of a dog than you, and I think that’s gonna be the X-factor.

Kyte: All right, so what’s Strickland’s best trait?

Marshall: I agree with you.

Kyte: We talk about it all the time and you see it all the time — how people change when they climb the ladder and get into these bigger fights, have these different opportunities, get a little money, get a little fame.

Marshall: Yeah, and we’ll see. We saw this fight already and neither of them are different, so we’ll see.

Kyte: What are the paths to victory for each guy?

It changes your timing just a little.

Marshall: And in a close round, do you win now? And that’s what that fight was is a close fight.

Marshall: Ugly, messy fights.

That can be a really close fight where one thing in each round swings it in your favor. First round, a takedown in the last 45 seconds; you win the round with a couple good elbows, but it was close for four-and-a-half minutes.

Be on the winning end of that.

Kyte: And do what you’ve got to do in order to be on the winning end of that.

Marshall: Do it again. Do the same thing again.

Kyte: So we covered the X-factor a little earlier in that is comes down to who is gonna be the bigger bully.

That will be the X-factor of this bully thing.

It’s gonna be early when it occurs, but the effects will be late.

Kyte: It’s the Merab-Umar fight and the Erin Blanchfield-Rose Namajunas fight. The people that lost those fights won the first two rounds, but they were working backwards a lot, they were getting pressured a lot, having to contend with “this MFer is in my space, not giving me any room; this is tiring and suffocating and I wish they would take a backwards step.”

That didn’t happen and they couldn’t keep doing it.

Marshall: And it’s not even that they don’t want to do it — they just physically can’t do it anymore; they can’t continue what they’ve been doing.

One Coaching Curiosity

Kyte: Okay, so what’s the one curiosity point here for you? The piece of that, after seeing it the first time, you’re like, “I wanna see how this goes?”

Marshall: And we’re talking early rounds again, because I think we’re gonna be 2-2 going into the fifth; that’s my guess, and how did we get to 2-2 is really important. What does the corner look like for both people in between the fourth and fifth rounds?

Was it Dricus won the first round, Sean eked out the second? The third round is gonna be very telling. I think the third is gonna tell us how the fight is gonna go.

That’s why for me, the third round is gonna be very telling.

Kyte: I don’t think either of these guys are “We can be down 2-0 and it’s okay” fighters.

Kyte: It’s gonna be interesting.

Marshall: Yes it is.