
Light heavyweight veteran Alonzo Menifield kicked things off by bouncing Oumar Sy from the ranks of the unbeaten before recent Dana White’s Contender Series grad Mansur Abdul-Malikl scored a technical decision win over Cody Brundage. Raoni Barcelos out-worked former bantamweight champ Cody Garbrandt, Edmen Shahbazyan turned in a quality effort over Andre Petroski, and two-time strawweight ruler Rose Namajunas got things moving in the right direction again with a strong performance against Miranda Maverick.

And in the main event, former welterweight champ Kamaru Usman got things headed in the right direction again, halting the rise of Joaquin Buckley.

Usman put Buckley on the canvas less than a minute into the fight, roughing him up from top position for the remainder of the round. In the next two frames, Usman was again able to deposit the explosive hopeful on the mat and keep him there, grinding out the clock while continuing to chip away with short shots and the occasional heavy elbow.

As the fight shifted to the championship rounds, Buckley tried to keep things standing and find opportunities to land, but Usman stayed out of harm’s way and timed his shot expertly, putting Buckley on the ground with relative ease in  the fourth, riding him out once there. Although “New Mansa” managed to defend the shots in the fifth, he couldn’t find the shot he needed to shift things in his favor.

It was a clean sweep of the scorecards for Usman, who registered his first victory since defending the welterweight title against Colby Covington at UFC 268. This was a strong showing from the 38-year-old veteran, who may not be next in line for a championship opportunity as he would like, but Usman definitely ensured he’s still in the conversation at the top of the division.

“The Golden Boy” was patient and defensively responsible throughout, choosing his weapons wisely to sting Petroski a couple different times while ensuring that the Philadelphia native wasn’t able to work forward and wrestle much. After controlling the action for the majority of the first two rounds, Shahbazyan folded Petroski over with a pair of heavy kicks to the body in the third, continuing to widen his advantage as the clock ticked down.

All three judges scored the fight for Shahbazyan, who has now earned back-to-back wins and victories in three of his last four. Still just 27 years old, the former middleweight rising star is clearly making improvements under Jason Manly and it will be interesting to see how he continues to develop and perform going forward.

The ex-titleholder looked sharp to start, flashing his trademark speed and swagger, but after the first round, Barcelos was able to start walking Garbrandt down as his pace slowed. He wrestled more successfully, dictated where the action took place, and got the better of the exchanges, distancing himself down the stretch.

After opening the year with a unanimous decision win over unbeaten prospect Payton Talbott, that’s now consecutive 2025 wins and three straight victories overall for the 38-year-old bantamweight. Well-rounded and durable, Barcelos is another intriguing figure on the fringes of the Top 15 in the ultra-competitive 135-pound weight class.

The Xtreme Couture representative was in control of the action through the opening two rounds, landing the bigger blows while showing a little more aggression and an ability to take a couple good shots. While pressing in the third, he hurt Brundage on the feet, then looked to swarm, with the two men clashing heads in the midst of the chaotic frenzy, leading to Brundage collapsing to the canvas and Abdul-Malik pouncing to push for the finish.