
Honorable Mentions: Sam Patterson, Mario Pinto, Magomed Ankalaev, Ignacio Bahamondes, Carlos Leal, Kevin Vallejos, David Martínez, Ateba Gautier

This was an absolute “snatching victory from the jaws of defeat” moment for Bannon, who was rightfully ebullient following the win, and a massive learning moment for Tomar, who was as close to landing one of the best knockouts of the month as you can be while still ending up on the wrong side of the results.

By the way: Felder called that Tomar had put herself back into serious trouble just before the tap, too. He’s absolutely tremendous as an analyst.

Honorable Mentions: Bahamondes vs. Jalin Turner, Da’Mon Blackshear vs. Cody Gibson, Brendson Ribeiro vs. Diyar Nurgozhay, Carlos Vera vs. Josias Musasa, Andre Lima vs. Daniel Barez, Sean Brady vs. Leon Edwards, Chris Duncan vs. Jordan Vucenic, Edgar Chairez vs. CJ Vergara

When I spoke with Caio Borralho last year ahead of his main event clash with Jared Cannonier, he told me that Mauricio Ruffy was the most gifted fighter he has ever seen, which was high praise from the first member of the thriving Fighting Nerds squad to make an impact in the UFC.

In his first appearance after that conversation, Ruffy battled to a decision with late replacement opponent James Llontop, a fellow DWCS grad who tagged in for Charlie Campbell and came in a little north of the 165-pound catchweight limit. He won, but not in the manner many expected, and with far less flair than he showed in his debut stoppage win over Jamie Mullarkey a few months earlier at UFC 301 in Rio de Janeiro.

At UFC 313, Ruffy showed why Borralho was quick to sing his praises.

Paired off with King Green in a main card measuring stick fight, Ruffy stung the veteran midway through the opening round with a straight right hand that caused Green to start reaching for a get-back. The Brazilian stayed calm, continued working to back the Californian towards the fence and herd him with pawing left hooks that would lead him into another right hand. After working him backwards behind the tram line, Ruffy began pawing with his lead hand once more, but this time, it was a distraction.

Ruffy is a fascinating fighter to track in the lightweight division, as he’s dynamic on the feet and fights with undeniable panache. The win over Green resets where his floor rests in the talent-rich 155-pound ranks, but his ceiling has yet to be determined, and the way he and the rest of the team has been going of late, it’s hard not to project the 28-year-old being the next member of the Sao Paulo-based outfit to move into the Top 15.

Honorable Mentions: Patterson vs. Danny Barlow, Mario Pinto vs. Austen Lane, Chidi Njokuanivs. Elizeu Zaleski dos Santos, Waldo Cortes Acosta vs. Ryan Spann, Priscila Cachoeira vs. Josiane Nunes, Carli Judice vs. Yuneisy Duben, Manuel Torres vs. Drew Dober, Gautier vs. Jose Daniel Medina

Haqparast entered on a four-fight winning streak, the best run of his UFC career, except many felt he didn’t quite do enough to get the nod in his bout with Jared Gordon last summer. Ribovics arrived having won his last three, including a split decision win over Daniel Zellhuberat UFC 306 that took home Fight of the Month honors for September and Fight of the Year in our annual year-end staff awards.

Over the course of the 15-minute battle, they landed a combined 282 significant strikes (18.8 per minute), with Ribovics throwing an insane 433 shots over the three-round affair. Haqparastwas the much more efficient of the two, landing at a shade under 50 percent on his way to garnering the split decision win, but Ribovics didn’t yield in his pursuit once, further establishing himself as a must-see competitor each time he steps into the Octagon.

This was one of those contests where, despite the loss on his record, the Argentine’s stock still rose, while Haqparast collected a fifth consecutive victory, and should garner another step up in competition next time out as a result.

Honorable Mentions: Justin Gaethje vs. Rafael Fiziev, Loopy Godinez vs. Julia Polastri