
For much of the first round, Elekana was following Christian, unable to corral the debuting Brazilian while eating a series of inside kicks that left him with a welt on his right shin. But late in the frame, the Las Vegas-based light heavyweight connected with a right hand that put the towering Christian on the canvas. From there, Elekana pounced, unloaded, and flattened him out, lacing up the choke and putting him to sleep.

After suffering a loss in his short notice debut, Elekana has now earned consecutive victories, solidifying his standing as solid emerging name to follow in the 205-pound weight class heading into next year.

Lee spent the entirety of the first round working as a human backpack, forcing Cuamba to carry his weight and be mindful of his defenses. “Twilight” found success in the second, landing the better of the strikes throughout while mixing in some grappling of his own before weathering the initial rush from Lee at the start of the third and control the rest of the frae with his wrestling.

All three judges scored the fight in favor of Cuamba, who registered his second consecutive victory while simultaneously stopping Lee’s five-fight winning streak. This was a tough, gutsy performance from the 26-year-old, who advanced to 10-3 with the win.

The recent Dana White’s Contender Series graduate was expected to throw power shots throughout, but instead, Johnson showed some of his grappling abilities, taking Dumas to the canvas multiple times over in the opening round. Early in the second, Dumas threw a series of rolling kick attempts that were unique, but ineffective, and left him in a prime position for Johnson to attack a front headlock, adjusting to a no-arm guillotine choke that drew out the tap.

Barely two months after earning his contract, Johnson earned his first UFC victory, advancing to 7-0 while maintaining his 100-percent finishing rate. The 26-year-old is still green, but the upside is obvious and it will be interesting to watch him develop and grow over the coming years.

While his nickname is “The Korean Tyson,” Ko once again used his wrestling and grinding top control to pulverize Rowe, who was taken down with relative ease and never afforded a chance to get back to his feet in each of the first two rounds. It was more of the same in the third, with Ko once again putting Rowe on his back in the center of the Octagon, roughing him up for the majority of the round and locking up another victory.

It was a clean sweep of the scorecards for the 32-year-old Ko, who advanced to 13-2 with six straight victories by grinding out Rowe. The South Korean is going to be a handful for anyone that cannot shut down his wrestling and collected another tick in the win column for the graduates from Season 8 of Dana White’s Contender Series.