
Dumont was the more active and effective striker throughout, but was taken down, controlled, and put in bad position by the Nova Uniao product. The third was the only clear round, with Dumont keeping things upright and outlanding the fading Vieira.

When the scorecards were collected and totalled, it was Dumont that landed on the favorable side of the split 29-28 scores, securing the second and third on two of the three scorecards. Now sporting the second longest winning streak among all female fighters on the roster, Dumont is likely to be in the mix for a championship opportunity next year having secured her sixth straight victory and besting the perennial contender Vieira on Saturday.

The Romanian-born strawweight was the quicker, more effective striker throughout, touching up Ruiz and mixing in shots to the body that stung while doing well to shut down any attempts to grapple by her opponent. Though Ruiz gets marks for her toughness and resolve, Ardelean was clearly the superior of the two on Saturday, maintaining her advantage from start to finish to claim another win.

Just like the previous fight, the verdict was never in question when the scorecards were collected and totalled. After opening with a pair of setbacks, Ardelean has now earned consecutive victories to climb to 10-8 overall while handing Ruiz her fourth straight setback inside the Octagon.

After a competitive first, Alencar connected with a clean right hand in the second that stopped Carnelossi from advancing and allowed her to get into her offensive grappling, eventually working to the back and attacking a deep rear naked choke. Carnelossi was saved by the horn in the second, but couldn’t escape Alencar’s clutches in the third, getting taken down off a kick before the former IBJJF world champion once again worked into position to secure the choke, this time with plenty of time to draw out the tap.

That’s now consecutive wins for Alencar, who moved to 3-1 in the UFC and 7-1-1 overall in her MMA career. This was her best performance to date and the kind of outing that the 35-year-old Brazilian needed to potentially earn a step up in competition next time out.