
Punahele Soriano opened the six-pack of fights with a 31-second knockout win before Christian Rodriguez once again handed an undefeated newcomer the first loss of their career. Finishes from Roman Kopylov and Cesar Almeida gave the middleweight division three stoppages in as many fights to begin the year, with Carlston Harris and Santiago Ponzinibbio following them into the Octagon and teaming up for a slugfest.

That’s now consecutive victories since shifting down to the 170-pound weight class for the Xtreme Couture representative. He’s still a long way from the rankings at the moment, but Soriano is clearly someone to keep a close eye on right now in the welterweight division, as he’s back to being the finisher he was easy in his career.

This was the fourth time “CeeRod” has beaten an undefeated prospect, adding Bashi to his previous wins over Raul Rosas Jr., Cameron Saaiman, and Isaac Dulgarian. Still just 27 years old, the Roufusport product is now 5-2 inside the Octagon, and clearly settling into life in the 145-pound weight class.

Roman Kopylov and Chris Curtis engaged in the first terrific fight of the year, trading blows over one second shy of full time before the bout was halted.

Kopylov was slightly more effective in the first, throwing and landing in combination, getting just a little ahead. While Curtis started strong in the second, cutting his Russian foe, Kopylov rallied in the back half of the round, hurting the Xtreme Couture representative a couple times. They continued to bash one another in the pocket in the third, with Kopylov again teetering Curtis, only for “The Action Man” to press forward in search of clean shots of his own.

In the final seconds of the fight, Kopylov landed a high kick that again wobbled Curtis, sending him to a knee. Referee Mark Smith watched Curtis’ movements and opted to stop the fight with one second remaining on the clock.

Moments after getting stung with a thunderous right hand that put him on the canvas and with Alhassan chasing a finish along the fence, Almeida unleashed a left hand that found the mark and ended the fight with a thud. The replay showed Alhassan getting wide with his punches, and the Brazilian took full advantage, landing true and shutting off his lights.

Just an absolutely blistering counter knockout from Almeida, who moved to 3-1 in the UFC with the first-round knockout win.

After feeling one another out in the early part of the opening frame, Harris hurt and dropped Ponzinibbio late in the round, then staggered him again in the second. But the former TUF: Brazil standout had success of his own during the first 10 minutes, and in the third, he continued to press forward and chase down Harris, hurting “Moçambique” and with power shots that let him staggering around the Octagon, prompting referee Kerry Hatley to step in and halt the action.

This was an emotional victory for Ponzinibbio, who entered on a two-fight skid and having struggled to find consistent success over his previous seven outings.  An outstanding fight between two gutsy, all-action veterans in the 170-pound weight class.