It’s never ideal to watch other people do what you love while you’re forced to sit on the sidelines, especially for a former champion like Jan Błachowicz, who feels like he has plenty in the tank to get that belt wrapped back around his waist.

The fact that two familiar faces occupy the top spots in the division makes the timing of his return all the better, but that’s business for after the fight. First, Błachowicz understands, comes the business of defending his spot and reminding the rest of the division he is every bit the world-class fighter who ascended to the throne five years ago.

“I feel pressure (to make a statement),” Błachowicz told UFC.com. “But, I know how to change this pressure for good energy, and I missed it. Almost two years, I don’t feel it, but now I feel it again, and I am happy. I believe that, when I change this kind of pressure, it will create power, and you are going to see it on Saturday.”

The Legendary Polish Power was dormant for the last couple of years as Błachowicz recovered from injuries and shoulder surgery. He admitted he felt “a little bit jealous” of his peers during the layoff, but he channeled that energy into studying his fellow combatants.

The roller coaster that is mixed martial arts is not unfamiliar for the 42-year-old. This year marks 11 in the promotion, a tenure which started with a rocky 2-4 start. Błachowicz would turn things around in a big way, winning nine of his next 10 fights to cement himself as one of the best light heavyweights in the world.

That longevity and ability to weather rocky periods is a point of pride for Błachowicz as it should be for any fighter who turns things around to the degree he did.

“I’m just happy I’m part of the UFC, part of the history of this amazing organization,” he said. “I’m just happy because that was my dream, and I’m still here for so many years, and it’s not the end still, and I’m still on the top.”

Seven years later, Błachowicz expects to have the crowd behind him, citing the large Polish population in England. That support, plus his actual skills in the Octagon, have Błachowicz feeling quite confident heading into Saturday and he expects a vintage performance.

“I just see the end of this fight in my mind: KO in the third round,” he said. “Legendary Polish Power is obvious.”

