
In a kind of lucky twist, Błachowicz’s last two opponents were Magomed Ankalaev and Alex Pereira, the men who occupy the top two spots in the weight class. Błachowicz was arguably ahead of Ankalaev early in their last-second title fight at UFC 282 before Ankalaev gutted his way to a split draw result, and he pushed Pereira to the scorecards where the judges gave the split decision nod to the Brazilian.

Błachowicz feels like he has scores to settle, particularly his “unfinished business” with the current champion, but his sights are currently set on stopping the rise of the oncoming Carlos Ulberg at UFC Fight Night: Edwards vs Brady in London.

Ulberg is arguably the hottest fighter at 205 pounds right now. The City Kickboxing representative is currently on a seven-fight win streak, with five finishes along the way, including four knockouts in the first round. He most recently took Volkan Oezdemir to the scorecards, besting the former title challenger via unanimous decision. By all accounts, this matchup with Błachowicz is his meal ticket to the title picture, one Błachowicz hopes to keep him from punching.

“I just am thinking about how to stop (Ulberg),” Błachowicz said. “It’s time to stop him, and I’m going to be the one to stop his seven wins in a row. He made his debut when I was defending my belt. That’s a nice story, but it’s time to stop him and show him he needs to learn a little bit.”

It is, in fact, a sort of full-circle story for Ulberg, whose first UFC bout came against Kennedy Nzechukwu at UFC 259, when his teammate Israel Adesanya challenged Błachowicz for the light heavyweight title. Both Ulberg and Adesanya suffered their first professional losses that night, but it was a valuable lesson for Ulberg, who hasn’t lost since.

That night was also when Błachowicz last had a definitive victory. He would go on to lose his belt to Glover Teixeira, and his return bout against Aleksandar Rakić ended prematurely when Rakić suffered a knee injury in the third round. The bouts with Ankalaev and Pereira followed, which is to say Błachowicz is itching for a big win on March 22.

When Błachowicz makes the walk to the Octagon in the O2 Arena, he fully knows what kind of energy to expect. He fought here once before in 2018, a rematch against Jimi Manuwa. That night, Błachowicz got his revenge on the man who bested him in his second UFC fight and earned a unanimous decision nod.