Following a strong slate of action on the prelims that wrapped with a third-round stoppage win by Dan Ige, the shift to the pay-per-view main card elevated the stakes and the athletes followed suit.

Dominick Reyes kicked things off by continuing his career renaissance (Domaissance, anyone?) with a first-round knockout win over Nikita Krylov before Jean Silva choked out Bryce Mitchell to earn his second win of the year. In the middle of the main card, Yair Rodríguez turned in his best performance in quite some time, dominating Patricio Pitbull, which was followed by Paddy Pimblett blowing through Michael Chandler in less than three rounds, elevating himself into the Top 10 in the process.

And in the main event, Alexander Volkanovski claimed the vacant featherweight title, becoming a two-time champion by out-working Diego Lopes over five rounds.

The Australian dominated the opening round, looking like the man who ruled this division for a number of years before settling into a rhythm and output that kept Lopes on the end of his punches more often than naught. Lopes had his best round in the fourth, hurting Volkanovski with a thudding uppercut and putting the pressure on throughout, only for Volkanovski to settle himself, utilizing his jab and movement to stem the tide.

When the scorecards were collected and the tens and nines were totalled, it was Volkanovski that came out ahead, earning a clean sweep of the scorecards. “Alexander the Great” becomes the second man to hold the UFC featherweight title twice, joining Jose Aldo, while becoming the first competitor over age 35 to win a title fight in the lighter weight classes.

The Liverpool man was the more effective of the two in the opening round, landing the better strikes while Chandler looked to grapple. In the second, the Scouser again controlled the striking, but controlled things on the mat as well, before opening up the veteran with a flying knee early in the third that opened the door for him to continue attacking and ultimately pound out Chandler.

This was an absolutely blistering effort from “Paddy the Baddy,” who continues to defy expectations and march forward in the lightweight ranks. This win will elevate him into the Top 10, and put him in a position to face another elite talent later this year.

The former interim champion was the more active and effective throughout the first two rounds, using an array of kicks and quality movement to keep Pitbull outside and unable to find sustained success on the feet. In the third, Rodriguez was able to clip Pitbull with a right hand coming in that put him on the canvas, chasing him to the floor and putting a stamp on a statement win.

This was the most complete effort from the Chicago-based Rodriguez in some time, as he was locked in from the outset and continued having success throughout. He remains one of the top contenders in the featherweight division, and this victory puts him back on the short list of potential title challengers as things continue to shake out in the shifting 145-pound ranks.

Mitchell came out landing well, but Silva was never bothered by the activity coming his way, finishing the opening round by chasing submissions that had the American in trouble. In the second, Silva marched Mitchell down with bravado, finally putting him on the canvas with a right hand and then clamping onto a deep choke as Mitchell worked to his feet in search of a takedown.

This is now three straight wins for Reyes, who is enjoying a tremendous resurgence following a nasty four-fight losing streak. The 35-year-old, who pushed Jon Jones to the brink several years ago, should return to the Top 10 when the rankings update next week, and could find himself in a massive fight next time out.