
It’s different for events at the UFC APEX or Fight Night events on the road, like the one in Seattle a couple weeks back. While the main event fighters still draw the lion’s share of the attention, there is often a greater dispersal of interest throughout the card because there are fights with the same kind of gravitational pull as this weekend’s lightweight title clash between Alex Pereira and Magomed Ankalaev and the combustible co-main event featuring Justin Gaethje and Rafael Fiziev.

The 32-year-old Russian is 13-2-1 overall with one no contest, having garnered a win, but not a contract, on Season 5 of Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) before retuning last season and collecting both by stopping Hugo Cunha on the horn at the end of the opening round. Between those two appearances, Kuniev stopped UFC veteran Anthony Hamilton under the Eagle FC banner, and out-worked Renan Ferreira in the PFL before the bout was ruled a no contest.

Overall, he’s unbeaten in a dozen straight, and getting this instant pairing with Blaydes should serve as an indication of what the UFC thinks about his upside as an incoming heavyweight. The Chicagoland native and Denver-based Blaydes has been a Top 5 competitor in the heavyweight division for the last several years, with his only setbacks coming against champions and title challengers, making him the ultimate measuring stick for Kuniev here.

He’s been training at American Top Team for nearly a year now, and has the requisite baseline grappling you would expect to see someone from Dagestan possess, while his sudden finish of Cunha showed there is quick, deadly power in his hands as well. Kuniev is a wildly intriguing addition to the big boy ranks, and could emerge as a legitimate contender with a win on Saturday.

Season 23 winner Tatiana Suarez just challenged for the strawweight title and was favored to beat incumbent Zhang Weili heading into the contest, Macy Chiasson continues to close in on a championship opportunity at bantamweight, and Bryan Battle is one of the top ascending stars in the welterweight division. This weekend, Santos, who won the featherweight competition on Season 32, faces off with fellow up-and-comer Francis Marshall in a compelling assignment for the promising Brazilian.

Just 24 years old and already brandishing a 14-1 record, Santos has earned a pair of victories since suffering the lone loss of his career to TUF and UFC alum Dan Argueta in an LFA main event three years ago. Training out of Xtreme Couture, the proud new dad claimed the TUF 32 victory by stopping Kaan Ofli in the second round, showing far more of his dynamic and dangerous skill set than he did in the house, where ensuring he was on weight was his greatest concern.

Santos is another of these young, clearly skilled fighters coming through the Las Vegas outpost that has obvious upside, but a wealth of room to grow, as well, much like his teammate (and fellow FOTR alum) Mansur Abdul-Malik. Right now, he’s a bundle of potential and someone that shows flashes of brilliance, and it’s exciting to think about what he could become if he stays on the same developmental track going forward.

Marshall is a great introductory dance partner for the Brazilian newcomer — a 25-year-old DWCS alum who has already logged four trips into the Octagon, bookending setbacks against William Gomis and Isaac Dulgarian with wins over Marcelo Rojo and Dennis Buzukja. He’s 8-2 overall, has been training at American Top Team with a host of killers, and should stand as a solid test for the UFC debutant on Saturday.

The landscape in the featherweight division has shifted dramatically in recent weeks, creating even more openings and opportunities as we ready to crown a new champion next month. While he’s a long way from the rankings, a big victory out of the gate would go a long way to establishing Santos as a key part of the emerging set in the 145-pound weight class, and ensure more eyes will be on him whenever he makes his second foray into the Octagon.