After blasting his way into the UFC after an all-action performance on Dana White’s Contender Series, Swedish welterweight Andreas Gustafsson has arrived in the UFC, and he’s prepared to let his fists do the talking.

The 34-year-old Gustafsson built his name on the European scene, fighting for a host of promotions, including BRAVE CF, KSW and Swedish organization Fight Club Rush (FCR).

His aggressive, come-forward fighting style soon put him on the radar of the UFC’s matchmakers, and an invitation to compete on the Contender Series soon followed.

His performance to defeat gritty Canadian veteran Pat Pytlik offered an accurate advertisement of what Gustafsson is all about. He’s a hard-nosed, “bring your lunch pail” kind of fighter who will ensure that, even if you do somehow find a way to beat him, you’ll know you’ve been in a fight by the end of the night.

So far, only two fighters have accomplished that feat, and Gustafsson, despite being in his mid-30s, is ready to show the world what he’s all about on Saturday night at the UFC APEX.

“When I'm in the Octagon, it's all about fighting,” he stated, matter-of-factly.

Gustafsson will be stepping into the Octagon for his first official UFC fight, but having competed on the Contender Series last year, he’s already comfortable with competing at the UFC APEX.

“I usually don't get nervous, but yeah, it's a familiar place to come to,” he said of UFC’s Las Vegas base.

Now he’s ready for his Octagon debut and, after seeing a planned matchup with Preston Parsons fall through in January, then a bout this weekend with Jeremiah Wells also go by the wayside, Gustafsson will now compete against short-notice opponent Trevin Giles in a 180-pound catchweight bout.

It means Gustafsson will finally get to make his debut and, while he’s grateful that he has a dance partner for Saturday night, he isn’t concerning himself with the skill set of the man standing across the Octagon from him on fight night.

“I'm always trying to develop my own skills, not different for different opponents. I do the same with everybody,” he said.

“I just feel happy he accepted the fight on short notice. That’s good. Actually, I don't care. I'm humble, but I don't care about the other guy. I'm not that kind of a thinker.”

Gustafsson’s singular focus is on his upcoming fight. And for those who haven’t seen him in action yet, “Bane” described his fighting philosophy in very straightforward terms.

“It's just who I am, the way that I live. I try to live by the old Viking spirit,” he said.

Clearly, Gustafsson’s mind is on the job at hand, and when he steps into the Octagon and the door is locked behind him, he knows exactly how he wants things to play out.