
It’s weird to try to think back to who Anderson Silva was then because of who we know him to be now and what he accomplished, but it feels fair to say that no one thought we were on the precipice of one of the greatest championship runs in the history of the sport when “The Spider” entered the Octagon as the challenger on October 14, 2006.

Silva represented a generational shift in the sport, only we didn’t know it at the time, which is what made this performance, and the subsequent historic reign that followed even more remarkable.

Chael Sonnen was less than two minutes away from backing up every calculated, rehearsed, insulting thing he had said about Silva in the lead-up to this fight in Oakland. For four-and-a-half rounds, the challenger had done precisely what he said he would do, wrestling Silva to the canvas, roughing him up from top position, and largely shutting down his diverse and exciting offensive attack.

But then he got a little careless and the greatness of Silva peeked out, recognizing the one little opening he needed to change the course of the fight and snatch victory from the jaws of sure defeat.

I watched this fight at an Applebee’s in Victoria, British Columbia. The place was packed and largely silent, as we all sat there in awe of the fact that the greatest fighter on the planet (Silva) was going to lose to someone seen as a journeyman who was cribbing his old wrestling promos and didn’t at all feel like the man to end the Brazilian’s extended reign over the 185-pound ranks.

I still remember the sound that filled the large dining room when Silva connected on the fight-ending triangle choke and Sonnen tapped, then argued he didn’t tap. It was like we had all watched our favorite team net the Stanley Cup-winning goal being scored in triple overtime.

Watching this one back now still makes me frustrated; not because of the outcome, but because it feels like we never really got the chance to see these two face off when they were both dialed all the way in and ready to leave everything inside the Octagon to prove who was the better man.

Silva entered with a 16-0 mark inside the Octagon. He’d beaten previous champions, dangerous challengers, and everyone in between, even venturing up to light heavyweight a couple times to blow out a journeyman and make like Neo in The Matrix against a former titleholder. If he felt untouchable, unbeatable, able to toy with the competition, it’s understandable, though always felt ill-advised.