Halloween just passed, which means chances are there are some chocolate and candy and general snack items kicking around your place right now, and that feels like good timing and a good analogy to me because while some cards feel like expertly crafted fine dining experiences, and others are quality restaurant menus with a little something for everyone.

But every so often, you need something that is just a good old-fashioned binge meal — something you’re going to enjoy that addresses your cravings, while also making you look forward to your next trip to a nice little bistro or a place with a prefixed menu.

Let’s get into it.

Location: UFC APEX — Las Vegas, NV

Where to Watch: ESPN+

Other Main Card Matches:

Prelim Matches:

All the pieces of this fight make sense: it’s the right type of test for each individual at this moment, and them having five rounds to work lessens the chances of a debated split decision verdict leaving someone salty. They both have earned a moment in the spotlight,  and the winner could be looking at a date with someone in the middle third of the rankings in the first half of next year, so showcasing them here is a no-brainer and must-see TV.

Flyweight is in a great spot right now with plenty of depth and tons of talent, so even bouts like this between competitors stationed outside of the rankings carry some real weight. A spot in the Top 15 may not come for the victor, but a date with someone sporting a number next to their name might.

Muslim Salikhov and Uros Medic share the Octagon on Saturday in a welterweight battle that has a high probability of ending with someone wondering what happened.

Will Salikhov continue to stave off Father Time and collect another stunning finish or will “The Doctor” break his pattern of welterweight results and dispatch the veteran to the hospital?

Someone is adding another win to their streak, while the other is going home disappointed, and the process of determining who lands in which role should be thoroughly entertaining for as long as it lasts.