
"This is the first time that I actually feel like I'm 100 percent, because in the past, I always had to cut the weight," he explained during an exclusive interview with UFC.com.

"I always had to suffer mentally (and) physically. This time, I have been able to enjoy the whole process. I feel like I'm at 100 percent. My power is on point. My stamina is on point. Everything is on point. So I feel very, very powerful at this weight class. Of course, the guys are bigger, but I'm bigger also, and I have more power. Everything I have, it's more in this weight class. Actually, I belong to this weight class naturally."

Given his recent performances at featherweight, that's quite a statement.

"I have been able to enjoy the full training camp, so I'm very happy. I can say for the first time in my career, I'm able to enjoy the whole process.

"To be honest, nothing (much) has changed. The only thing that changed is the diet. I'm able to eat a little bit more, I'm able to drink a little bit more – it's what makes the difference."

"Once you beat legend after legend after legend, you automatically become a legend. So this is what I'm expecting."

"Listen, they are going to feel what I'm talking about right now. They are going to feel something that they never felt with any other opponents they had in the past."

"I always said I represent the new generation of mixed martial arts. What does that mean? That means that if you want to become the best fighter in the world, you have to be a complete fighter. You have to be good in your striking game, with your wrestling and with your ground game.

"If we go to the past and we look at the fighters and the world champions, you could become a world champion with only two sports. For example, with striking or wrestling, and without a ground game, you could become a world champion. But, right now, at the point that the sport is (at today), it's basically impossible. You have to be good everywhere. And I'm that kind of guy that brings that new style to the game."

"Those kinds of styles are much easier for me, because most of the time I have to close the distance with my opponents.

"From the first second, he's going to feel the speed and the power. He's going to start to look for the takedowns and for the ground game. But I think that it's going to be very, very quick, because I'm going to finish him in the in the first two or three minutes.

"My dream, since I was a kid, was to become a world champion, which I was able to achieve when I became the featherweight world champion. Now, after I won that world title, I defended (it). I was like, 'I need something new.' I moved up. Now I will become a two-time world champion in the featherweight, then the lightweight division."

And "El Matador" had no hesitation as he delivered his pre-fight prediction with a smile.

"Jab, jab, one-two, and it's over!"