
Honorable Mentions: Punahele Soriano, Marco Tulio, Jacobe Smith, Azamat Bekoev

Think Demian Maia when he shifted his focus back to being an absolute nightmare for whatever welterweight was standing opposite him at the time. That was what we saw from Dern in this one.

Honorable Mentions: Felipe Bunes vs Jose Johnson, Bogdan Guskov vs Billy Elekana, Reinier de Ridder vs Kevin Holland, Islam Makhachev vs Renato Moicano

Straight punches beat looping shots; it’s something you’ll hear from coaches and analysts all the time, and this should now be the instructional video that accompanies that lesson each and every time it’s being taught. Alhassan had Almeida hurt and backed against the fence, swarming him with punches, looking to find that one shot that sealed the deal. Except he was throwing hooks, and Almeida, who had recovered well from being dazed and was doing a good job of covering up and rolling with the shots, opted to fire off a laser down the pipe that found the target first.

The left hand landed and Alhassan instantly stiffened up, falling like felled timber to the unforgiving canvas below.

Eric Nicksick, the leader of the team at Xtreme Couture, where Almeida trains, summed up the outcome of this one perfectly on his weekly podcast, Verse Us, saying, “You can’t go into a gunfight with a gunslinger.”

Alhassan may have been carrying the more powerful gun, but Almeida was the superior marksman, and walked away with the most memorable knockout finish of the month.

Honorable Mentions: Soriano vs. Uros Medic, Smith vs. Preston Parsons, Azamat Bekoev vs. Zachary Reese,

Dvalishvili seemed fine with it all, loving every second inside the Octagon even though things weren’t necessarily going his way. The charismatic and fun-loving bantamweight ruler seemed thrilled just to be in there competing, trusting that things would eventually swing in his favor, and they began to in the third.

As the championship rounds hit, Dvalishvili started to take over, his smile and overall joyousness ratcheting up another notch as the fight continued to progress, right down to when he hit a double bicep kiss before putting Nurmagomedov on the deck one more time to punctuate what was a vintage effort from the man aptly nicknamed “The Machine.”

Nurmagomedov remains an elite talent and is someone that will continue to reside in the upper echelon of the bantamweight division for the foreseeable future, but he, like the last 10 men before him, just couldn’t contend with the otherworldly conditioning and pace of the reigning ruler of the 135-pound weight class.

Honorable Mentions: Roman Kopylov vs. Chris Curtis, Benardo Sopaj vs. Ricky Turcios, Jiri Prochazka vs. Jamahal Hill