Main Event: Merab Dvalishvili vs Sean O’Malley

What It Means: “The Machine” is a relentless, marauding presence in the Octagon. He doesn’t have the cleanest technique and isn’t the most dominant physical presence, but his work rate, cardio and undeniable will to win combine to make him an absolute menace to face. He is light and bouncy on his feet with a decent striking game, but for Dvalishvili, it begins and ends with his grappling. Dvalishvili’s chain wrestling and willingness to hustle on the second, third or even fourth shots during a scramble is what makes him special. Once on top, he prefers to dish out ground-and-pound, but he will also happily continue to take opponents down multiple times.

What to Look For in the Fight: Dvalshvili dominated their first meeting, but O’Malley claims he wasn’t 100 percent going into the fight, which hindered his ability to use his footwork and defend takedowns. To be fair to the former champion, nobody has cracked the code on the Georgian for about seven years, but if anyone has the ability to time Dvalishvili and find a finishing shot, it’s O’Malley. Dvalishvili must be mindful of the weapons coming his way, but if he can swarm O’Malley and prevent him from finding his rhythm, the rematch could look a lot like the first installment

Other Fights to Watch (Mario Bautista vs Patchy Mix)

What It Means: Bautista is a dynamic fighter with a well-rounded skillset. Despite some criticism for his performance against José Aldo, Bautista has shown a shape-shifting ability to change styles and find his path to victory, often in impressive fashion. His striking is diverse and intelligent, but his best self shows when the fight moves to grappling. From there, Bautista has shown a variety of slick submissions and high-level technique in scrambles.

Key Stats: N/A (UFC Debut)

What to Look For in the Fight: This should be a fascinating fight, as Bautista has the skillset to push the fight wherever he finds the best path to victory, and he has the athleticism and footwork to evade Mix’s pressure. However, Mix likely has the grappling edge, so if he can back Bautista up, he will find success along the fence. If Bautista gets on the front foot, watch for some flying knees and other dynamic strikes. At the same time, if Bautista initiates a grappling exchange, Mix has shown good timing with knees moving both forward and backward.