
UFC strawweight champion Zhang Weili has dominated the division for years, across two separate title reigns, and has recently expressed interest in moving up a weight division to challenge flyweight champion Valentina Shevchenko and achieve champ-champ status.

No. 1 ranked contender and former title challenger Yan Xiaonan faces No. 3 ranked Virna Jandiroba. In 2024, Yan earned her first crack at gold in what became the first title fight featuring two athletes from China.

It was a valuable 25 minutes of experience for Yan, who went on to shut out Tabatha Ricci in her next fight, outstriking the Brazilian 89-17 over 15 minutes. Prior to her title opportunity, Yan scored a first round knockout win over No. 4 ranked Jessica Andrade and a main event victory over Mackenzie Dern.

Standing across from her on April 12 is Virna Jandiroba, whose elite grappling has become one of the most dangerous threats in the division. Since her last loss to Amanda Ribas in 2021, Jandiroba has gone on a four-fight win streak, including unanimous decision victories over Loopy Godinez, Marina Rodriguez and Angela Hill.

Jandiroba’s most impressive performance to date came in her last fight against former title challenger Amanda Lemos in her first UFC main event. Lemos, known for her heavy hands, was completely neutralized for much of the fight. After spending most of the first round on her back, Lemos brought the fight back down to the ground in the second, which Jandiroba took full advantage of.

She immediately took Lemos’ back and began working for a rear-naked choke. With Lemos defending well, Jandiroba quickly transitioned to an armbar and forced the tap with just 12 seconds left in the round.

To submit the No. 3 ranked contender in such a dominant fashion is why Jandiroba now finds herself potentially just one win away from a shot at UFC gold. But it won’t be an easy test against the well-rounded Yan, who’s experienced championship rounds against the division’s best, and also looks as though she’s improving with every fight.