Has 2025 been the best year in UFC history when it comes to the action inside the Octagon and the level of talent present on the roster?

A question like that is automatically going to attract a chorus of scoffs and an avalanche of people wanting to point to the least experienced competitors in each division and the odd fight card that underwhelmed as justification for their dismissal of the thought. Once we wade through the instant pushback and customary desire to find the bad in everything, what we’re left with is an 11-month run that has yielded a host of outstanding events, innumerable riveting performances, and a number of record-setting or record-breaking efforts by some of the biggest names in the sport today.

And the year isn’t quite over yet either.

From a talent standpoint, it feels difficult to suggest there has been a time with a greater concentration of skilled fighters and promising hopefuls on the UFC roster than right now. There may have been times with greater individual competitors and a few more superstar names making their way into the Octagon two or three times a year, but from top-to-bottom across the 11 divisions, the depth of talent has never been better.

You could make a case that there are six competitors on the roster right now deserving of being called the best to ever compete in their respective weight divisions, or former weight division in one case.

While those two gentlemen don’t necessarily fit the “divisional best” discussion, they’re unquestionably deserving of a place in the pantheon of all-time greats.

But it’s not just the champions that make the current roster so special, as there are several divisions that are brimming with talent and feature competitive battles for position in the championship chase.

What truly makes this year feel special from a talent standpoint is the sheer volume of promising newcomers and prospects that have emerged thus far in 2025.

Coming into the year, I stated that the Dana White’s Contender Series Class of ’24 had a chance to be the best the show had ever produced, and so far, there are some clear standouts that are making me look borderline clairvoyant.

On the whole, the graduates from Season 7 that have graced the Octagon are a combined 46-31-1, good for a .590 winning percentage, with several of those losses coming against ranked and respected opposition or other promising up-and-comers. That’s a strong start for a group that just started competing at this level a year ago and with additional growth and experience, we could have another couple contenders that emerge from this group of emerging Contender Series grads.

As great as this year has already been — and it has been great — there are still two more events to get through before we wrap up 2025, and each carry the potential to provide further support for the thesis being presented here.

Even without an electric ending to December, this year has been pretty special, and if things continue the way they have so far in 2025 through these final two events, it’s going to be difficult to argue that this wasn’t one of the very best years in UFC history.