
2025 is the year Islam Makhachev tied Anderson Silva’s record for the most consecutive victories inside the Octagon and did it by winning championship gold in a second weight class in dominant fashion. It’s the year Ilia Topuria became a two-weight title holder, as “El Matador” closed out International Fight Week with a mesmerizing knockout of Charles Oliveira to claim the vacant lightweight title.

It's the year Waldo Cortes Acosta fought five times in nine-months, including twice in November, earning four wins while still angling for an opportunity to compete once more before the UFC takes its annual year-end break. It’s the year Valentina Shevchenko reaffirmed her dominance, Alexander Volkanovski returned to the top of the featherweight heap and Khamzat Chimaev reached the championship heights most forecasted him to attain when he entered Fight Island ready to “smash everybody” five years ago.

It's the year Valter Walker showed you can have a WWE-style finisher in the heavyweight division and Shauna Bannon snatched up a submission win seconds after nearly being separated from consciousness. It’s the year Quillan Salkilld scored not one, but two highlight reel knockouts, Elijah Smith channeled “Rampage” Jackson, and a whole bunch of people gave us a heck of a lot of entertaining fights.

Zhang Weili, Shevchenko, Alexandre Pantoja, Merab Dvalishvili, Alexander Volkanovski and Makhachev all have strong cases for being the "G.O.A.T.” in their given divisions, and that’s to say nothing of two-division destroyer Alex Pereira or Topuria, who is 9-0 in the UFC, 17-0 overall, and has posted back-to-back-to-back knockout wins over Volkanovski, BMF champ Max Holloway, and Oliveira while winning and defending the featherweight title and then claiming the lightweight strap too.

Middleweight is captivating, even with a seemingly dominant force in Chimaev at the helm. Welterweight has recently submitted its application for being considered the best division in the sport, a title previous reserved for either lightweight or bantamweight, each of which remains flush with talent as well. Both flyweight divisions are bustling too, with Pantoja and Shevchenko having contenders stacking up for the opportunity to test themselves against the king and queen of the 125-pound ranks.

Salkilld, Navajo Stirling, and Ateba Gautier have three wins apiece already, while Mansur Abdul-Malik is 2-0-1 through his first three fights. Alexia Thainara and David Martinez have each only fought twice, but both are undefeated in the Octagon and ranked in their respective weight classes, with the former checking in at No. 15 in the strawweight division and the latter sitting at No. 11 in the 135-pound ranks.

Jose Miguel Delgado has two impressive wins and a loss to seasoned veteran Nathaniel Wood that is sure to be a teachable moment. Elijah and Jacobe Smith are both 2-0 with highlight reel finishes on their resumes, while SeokHyeon Ko and Yadier Del Valle have been very good with very little fanfare thus far. Despite recent setbacks, both Marco Tulio and Malcolm Wellmaker both looked very good earlier this year and should be heard from again in the not-too-distant future.

UFC 323 is loaded, with the early prelims offering a chance to get another look at Abdul-Malik and the debut of Polish light heavyweight prospect Iwo Baraniewski, who scored a 20-second knockout win to earn his contract this season on Dana White’s Contender Series. The televised prelims will showcase the depth of the lightweight division and a Top 10 matchup at flyweight between Maycee Barber and Karine Silva. The pay-per-view main card brandishes a bunch of matchups that can add to the mountain of evidence already presented in favor of this year being truly special.

Each of the first three bouts feature matchups where emerging names have a chance to knock off former champions, as Bogdan Guskov faces Jan Blachowicz, Payton Talbott takes on Henry Cejudo, and Tatsuro Taira squares off with Brandon Moreno. In each instance, a victory for the less established side of those pairings creates added intriguing in those weight divisions, with Talbott rising into the Top 15 with a win and Taira becoming a bona fide contender at flyweight if he can turn back the former two-time champion Moreno.

In the co-main event, either Pantoja will add another successful title defense to his resume, further bolstering his challenge to Demetrious “Mighty Mouse” Johnson for top spot all-time in the flyweight division, or 24-year-old challenger Joshua Van will close out an already impressive 2025 campaign by earning a fourth victory and ascending to the throne.

And in the main event, Dvalishvili puts his bantamweight strap on the line of a fourth time this year, running it back with former champ Petr Yan. If he wins, “The Machine” will not only further cement his case for Fighter of the Year — which is already pretty much assured — but he’ll also become the first fighter to ever successfully defend their title four times in a year. He’d run his winning streak to 15 too, leaving him one back of Makhachev and Silva for the most consecutive victories inside the Octagon.

While the final event of the year doesn’t have the massive stakes of the last pay-per-view of 2025, it does offer a chance to see a host of intriguing names that will be worth keeping a close eye on next year, including DWCS Class of ’24 member Kevin Vallejos, Class of ’25 grad Cezary Oleksiejczuk, streaking featherweight Melquizael Costa and his opponent Morgan Charrier, and bantamweight hopefuls Melissa Croden and Luana Santos.