
While fans often want to see fresh matchups when gold is on the line, Yan has done everything he needed to over the last two years to earn this rematch. After defeating Top 5 contender Song Yadong and former flyweight champion Deiveson Figueiredo in a five-round main event, Yan continued to risk his position in the rankings by accepting a fight against fast-rising prospect Marcus McGhee.

The Arizona native entered their matchup in Abu Dhabi this past summer riding a six-fight winning streak, but that didn’t deter the Russian. Yan stayed steady and continued his march back toward the top with a unanimous decision win, rightfully earning a chance at redemption with the belt on the line in Las Vegas on December 6.

“A lot of people make the same mistake,” Yan said. “I think I even made the same mistake. They wait for him to work. They give him room to work instead of implementing their own gameplan. I think the way to beat him is to go first and not let him work.”

While on paper, Yan’s loss to Dvalishvili in March 2023 was the most lopsided defeat of his career, there were positives to take away from that performance. Merab attempted an unprecedented number of takedowns — 49, to be exact — but secured only 11. Yan will need to limit that number even more this time, but stopping 38 while dealing with that unrelenting pressure is commendable in itself.

“I wasn’t 100 percent back then,” Yan said. “I wasn’t able to really work the way I always work. I think I learned a lot. It was a very big experience for me that fight, and now I know this fight on Saturday is going to be a very different fight.”

While this fight was put together rather quickly, considering Dvalishvili just defended the belt in October against Sandhagen at UFC 320, this rematch is something Yan has been eyeing ever since that night in 2023. Capturing the belt with a win over “The Machine” would be the ultimate prize.

“It weighs a lot more when you get it as a rematch,” Yan said. “You weren’t able to do it then; now, not only do you cross out that loss, but you also get the title. I think it’s going to weigh and mean a lot more for me.

“It’s an incredible feeling, something you can’t describe in words,” Yan said of having the belt wrapped around his waist. “I’ve been waiting for this and I’m going wait for this more until Saturday, and I’m going to be really excited to have this again.”