
“I was a bit scared about my opponent because he was a 30-year-old grown man and I was a kid. He had 20 years of experience, and I didn’t know if at my young age I would be able to match (him). I was able to knock him out in the first or second round, and I was like, ‘Okay — maybe I have something for this.’ I went to this fight not in crazy shape, no great preparation, no game plan, nothing — just my fists.”

While the sport was well established in North America, Japan and Brazil and beginning to flourish in various other places, it was still banned in France, making it difficult for Charriere and others to see a means of translating their passion for fighting into a full-blown career.

“First, I was just fighting to fight,” Charriere said. “One day, I see the light, I see ‘Maybe there is a pathway I could make it to England, Great Britain’ and I started looking around. My weight cut was not really good because of the things in France, and we were not taking it professionally. One day I was like, ‘I think that is what I wanna do and I will just do my best.’

“I can have 10 years of me just pushing this dream, and with 10 years, I can win all the fights, make my record good, have great finishes, and get to the big stage. It was just visualization, believing in me and trusting the process. ‘If I work every day as hard as I can, there is no way I don’t reach it,’ and I made it, so I’m pretty proud of myself for sticking to the plan.”

“I’m pretty proud of that because I that’s always what I wanted,” Charriere said of his reputation as an all-action competitor and member of the UFC’s must-see TV contingent. “I’m doing this sport to make it enjoyable for the people, to bring new fans so that when they watch my fights, they’re like, ‘Whoa! This sport is crazy!’ or ‘Whoa! Who is this guy?’

“I want it where if my name is on the card, you want to look at the fight. Top opponent or not top opponent, a fight is a fight, but when I’m here, you know (you’re getting your money’s worth)… That’s how I see myself in a fight: I just want to make it enjoyable because I want to enjoy myself, and I enjoy myself when I go like this. I’m an artist when I fight. I just love to make it beautiful — beautiful violence.”

As much as he loves to compete and deliver excitement to the masses, Charriere has scaled back the number of appearances he’s making each year since he’s reached the UFC.

It was a decision made based on previous experience and not a lack of desire, as the all-action featherweight has put an increased focus on building consistency inside the Octagon after alternating results through his first five fights.

“I’ve lost fights because I’ve taken too much on in a year and not taken care of myself, of my body because I was chasing to be on the big stage, training so hard,” Charriere said. “Even right now, I’m trying to calm myself, (telling myself) ‘You’re in. You have the experience; you have nothing to prove. You do not have to fight a lot; you can take your time, do great fights, do great training camps to have better performance to start to rack them up and have a real win streak.’

“That’s been my biggest problem — getting the win streak going — so that is my plan: get the win streak going, keep racking up performance, finishing people,” he added. “I’m taking more time between fights to enjoy life because I didn’t enjoy life for 10 years, but now I’m enjoying life and enjoying fighting.”

“It’s important for me to get this win to go to the next stage.”

As for what the future holds beyond this weekend, Charriere is unsure, but understands that with his fighting style and popularity, the world is very much his oyster.

“I don’t know,” he said when asked about 2026. “We’ll see. First, Saturday night, and then after, everything is possible.”