
De Ridder captured championships in Asian organization ONE Championship at 225 and 205 pounds, but is now making waves in the UFC’s 185-pound class.

“I didn't really get hurt, I was able to finish them both. The weight has been a bit of a thing. I really have to work to stay a little closer to my weight. After the last one, I got a little heavy. But, yeah, all in all, I'm very happy. I'm very happy to be here.

“I want to stay at 185. The goal is the belt here. That’s what I’m working for. Maybe after we can talk about another weight, but first, 185.”

“I was surprised, because I didn't really expect that one. But I think style-wise, it's a very cool matchup to see. Our grappling style clash will be very cool. And he's maybe not a top five talent yet, but he's definitely a top five name. So yeah, I'm very happy with the matchup.”

Nickal doesn’t have the MMA experience de Ridder possesses, but the Dutchman has been impressed with what he’s seen from the former Penn State standout in his MMA career so far.

“He’s knocked it out the park every time,” he said.

“He's won every fight, beat everybody put in front of him. He's kept to his part.

The UFC middleweight division has traditionally been dominated by strikers, but the rise of a new breed of fighters who are equally capable of finishing fights on the ground offers encouragement for de Ridder, who has finished 17 of his 19 career wins, with 13 of those coming via submission.

“It's hard to say. I think it's up to me in this one,” he said.

“I need to make him wrestle. I need to make him go there.

“It seems like he was pretty content with this last performance, the way he moved, the way he stayed safe.  He did the smart thing, anyway.

“You saw he was winning in the striking department – he was outstriking him every round, and he just stuck to that. But this one will look nothing like that. This fight will look nothing like that last fight of his.”

De Ridder sees his path to victory coming via his grappling, but said that his mat skills alone won’t be enough to win it. He’ll need to make his mark with his strikes first.

“I need to put the pressure on him,” he stated.

“I need to hurt him a couple times, and I need to get close, wrestle, grapple, and see if I can find his neck.

“I’ve been working on a lot of different chokes, but what I see is me hurting him a couple times, hurting him to the body, hurting him upstairs, getting into some grappling exchanges, some wrestling exchanges, and finally, wrapping my arms around his neck.”

He makes it all sound so straightforward, but while the breakdown of his approach reflects his confidence in his abilities, it’s also an indication that he’s relaxed and and content with where he is at this stage of his career.

“I’m very happy. It's cool to be here,” he said.

“The activity is so nice to be fighting a couple times a year. This is my third time in six months. I really found a home at [his gym] Kill Cliff in Florida. So yeah, things are looking good, so let’s make it three!”