
Merab Dvalishvili

Key Stats: 92 takedowns (1st all-time), 16:53 average fight time (4th all-time among BW), 5.89 takedowns averaged per 15 minutes

Sean O’Malley

Key Stats: +3.31 striking differential (5th all-time), 9 total fight night bonuses (1st all-time among BW), 61.5% (1st all-time among BW)

What It Means: O’Malley is a sniper with real knockout power, which makes him one of the most dynamic and entertaining fighters to watch in the bantamweight division. “Suga,” when at his best, is a master of dictating the pace and distance of a fight. Whether he is switching stances to open up different angles within a combination or throwing myriad kicks to his opponent’s body and legs, O’Malley does best when he has space to operate. Because of that, his boxing on the inside is a little underrated. O’Malley has shown a decent defensive grappling ability, and he is quite confident in his jiu jitsu, as well, although he hasn’t shown much of it in the Octagon so far.

Julianna Peña

Key Stats: 56.3% takedown accuracy (tied 4th all-time among WBW), 57.9% significant strike defense (7th all-time among WBW), 23% takedown defense

Kayla Harrison

Key Stats: 4.87 strikes landed per minute, 2.75 takedowns averaged per 15 minutes, 1.19 strikes absorbed per minute

Mario Bautista

Key Stats: 9:14 average fight time (4th shortest), 5.33 strikes landed per minute (10th), 66% takedown defense

Patchy Mix

What It Means: The long-awaited debut of Patchy Mix has arrived, which means UFC fans will get to see Mix’s strong all-around game, but also the introduction of one of the better grapplers at 135 pounds. He has a surprisingly long frame for the division, and he uses that to his advantage. On the feet, he’ll pressure and cut off the cage with his footwork, the threat of his grappling and long strikes like teep kicks and leg kicks. If he can get his opponent backed up to the cage, he can then take the fight to his world on the mat. On the back foot, Mix has good defensive grappling and a particularly strong front headlock game. His style is simple, but effective, and there is very little wasted effort during his fights