
“For me, that has been absolutely everything because every time I think of giving up, that is the goal I think of. When I’m nine sessions, 10 sessions into the week, and I’m thinking, ‘I can’t do this right now, I need to rest’ — when you’re in a place where you’re asking yourself, ‘Why am I doing this?’ that is where that ultimate goal comes in. You go, ‘If you can’t do this, you can’t even consider (this bigger thing).’

“You saying in the last year, achieving such a big goal as being UFC champion — there was a stage in my life where making my pro debut meant the exact same thing to me; winning that debut meant the exact same thing to me as winning that UFC title,” continued the middleweight titleholder, who cemented his place atop the division with a fourth-round submission win over two-time champ Israel Adensanya last summer in Perth. “Four years ago, signing with the UFC, getting my shot, and fighting in the UFC was the exact same accomplishment in terms of value, for me, as it was to become the world champion.

"That is the beauty of setting your goals: there is the next step, then there is the next step, then there is the next step. You have to have the small goals, you have to have the medium ones, and those big, big, long-term ones to keep you going, and that’s what has been amazing for me.

“I have goals in my life — I have daily goals, weekly goals, monthly goals, yearly goals, and I have the ultimate goals, and it’s an amazing chase.”

While most everyone talking about this contest frames it as a rematch, which it is, the goal-oriented champion has a very different way of looking at things.

“If this was somebody else stepping in there, I would approach it exactly the same because I don’t see it as a rematch: I see it as I need to beat whoever steps into that Octagon on Saturday night, and that is the only thing I see.”

“After a year, you’re not gonna be that much stronger, you’re not gonna be that much faster. You can be cleaner, for sure, and crisper, 100-percent, and that’s gonna add to your striking, but the physical attributes that I think about most are not how fit is this guy, how snappy is this guy — it’s ‘if this guy touches me with a big punch, what’s gonna happen?’

“I was the one dictating that pace. I was the one going forward and advancing, and this time around, it will be the same.”

Though he promises to stick to the approach that has carried him to an 8-0 mark in the UFC and the top of the 185-pound weight class in a little more than five years, “Stillknocks” is certain that the challenger is going to change things up dramatically this time around.

And if that’s how things play out, he sees a very different outcome than their first encounter.