Accepting and believing that we are deserving of good things is something that a great number of people struggle with every day. The talents we possess, the love and support offered to us by others, the successes we have feel misplaced and like mistakes; cosmic errors meant for someone else that create anxiety, skepticism, and internal strife more than anything else.

“That’s what I’ve been looking to mimic and that what I’ve been talking about with my consistency, because I know with consistency, it’s all gonna come together.”

Perhaps more than anything in life, consistency is both the most important and most difficult thing to achieve, as the ability to do the right things and adhere to the lifestyle and approach needed in order to be successful is far more challenging than cutting a few corners and making excuses. Good habits are hard to build, and bad habits are difficult to break, and when coupled with a voice in your head telling you that you’re underserving of the byproducts of being consistent, getting up each day and making the right choices time and again can feel like a monumental challenge.

It seems like that time has come.

“It’s been me,” he says with an easy smile when asked about his lack of consistency in the past. “This entire time, I’ve hindered myself, not being able to keep myself focused, a lack of discipline, burning the candle at both ends at times; it’s been purely me.

“I’ve known what God had for me. God has been showing me all my life what I can do and, for whatever reason, I felt like I wasn’t deserving of it, so I didn’t live accordingly, and now I’m trying to put it together.

“It’s more an accumulation of…” Spann begins when asked if there are individual things he can point to that prompted his commitment to being consistent. “I’m 33 now. I could have been flipping this switch in my 20s and, for whatever reasons, I didn’t, and that’s on me.

“Every loss I’ve had has been on me, and I’m aware — and I guess that’s why it’s a little easier for me to live with, but, at the same time, it’s like, I know I want to set my kids up. This is my life, and I’ve got responsibilities, and I’m trying to show them that if you’re consistent in anything and you try and have fun with it, there is nothing you won’t be able to do.”

While his kids are a big part of his push to be consistent, they’re also part of the network of people that remains fully behind him as he looks to maximize his God-given talents and immense skills inside the Octagon, along with the rest of his family and the all-star cast at Fortis MMA in Dallas.

“I guess the thing about my family is they understand it and they see it, and they help me as much as they can,” he says. “It’s a group effort and we all want to see me do as best as I can. That’s the goal for us all right now — helping me — and we try to keep that balance and I try to stay as consistent.

“Well, they’ve seen it more than me, to be honest with you.”

“Honestly, it’s just getting used to not seeing myself how I’m used to seeing myself; that’s basically been the difference,” he says, explaining the mind-and-body disconnect he’s been dealing with. “It’s strange, honestly, because my entire career has been ‘get down, get down, get down.’

“There have been two occasions where I fought at a catchweight, so that was less cutting, but cutting nonetheless. This is strange. I’m excited to see how God uses me, but it’s weird.”

Strange as it may be, this isn’t a one-off for Spann, who sees a greater opportunity to thrive and potentially chase down championship gold competing in the heavyweight division, as evidenced by the fact that he’s debuting against a ranked opponent this weekend.

“It’s definitely not a one-off. We got aspirations — I like gold, I like shiny things, so I do plan on adjusting myself accordingly for the weight class,” he says, the gold chain around his neck shining, but nowhere near as much as the platinum and diamond grills that shimmer as he smiles.

“Honestly, I haven’t really thought about (securing this victory) and I try not to because it serves me nothing for where I’m at right now; that is then, this is now, so I try not to think about it.