
“I would have loved to come back and fight again right after the last fight,” Belbitatold UFC.com.

“I really wanted to take some short notice fights and just go fight after fight, because you train for a fight, then you are already in shape, so why not fight a few weeks later?

“But unfortunately, the injuries always keep me far away from the cage, and that's the reason I decided to switch the weight class, because making 115 was really hard on my body.

“I was eating around 400 calories a day for three months just to make the weight. So then my tendons were just snapping, my muscles never recovered. So it's better that now I'm moving up a weight class. And let's hope this fight goes well, and then maybe fight (again) soon.”

“I’m like, ‘No, I will have not have an arm, OK.’ Even if that round had been done there, my arm was already gone. I couldn’t punch, I couldn’t move that arm for a good few weeks. So definitely, I’m not upset.

“When this happens, it happens. A fight is a fight, and I think me and my health are a little bit more important than actually making it to the second round with a broken arm and, who knows, maybe getting knocked out on top of a broken arm.

“So that’s why, when I looked back, I was like, ‘Yeah, of course,’ because my body didn’t have nutrients for months, and, of course, I’m fragile. That’s how I really felt for the last two fights. I felt fragile.”

“It's definitely a difference from when you eat 400 calories, to when you actually eat like a normal human being. Before, I couldn't even run. I barely jogged in the morning, I barely hit some pads, barely trained.

“But now, having that fuel, having that energy, it was a lot different, and I really expect to see it on Saturday night.”

“It's always hard to believe in yourself for a while, because it's like I believe in myself, then I fail, and I crash hard. And the more I believe in myself, the harder I crash.

“I really think that this time that I took off because of the injuries, it really put me in a better place mentally, and made me believe myself, and built again that belief in myself.

“Especially when you lose not one fight, but when you lose two fights in a row, and you always feel like you are a little bit on the edge – you may be here, you may not be here tomorrow.

“It has always been like that for me. Every time I win a fight, then I lost the next one. I always felt like I walked on eggshells.

“So this time, I really took this opportunity. I broke my knees, broke my elbows, whatever. This time that I had for healing (my body), I really took that time to try to build myself mentally, too.”

“I’d really love to have that on my resume to say, ‘Yeah, I fought this girl and I beat this girl.’

“So, I think that's what we are going to see. Because, for this fight, I need to let the power go, because I'm not a small girl. I'm not a fragile girl anymore.

“Fighting at 115, of course, a lot of my power is gone. Fighting at 125, I feel like I’ve got my power back.”