
“It’s a little hard for me because I have family in Poland,” continued the 30-year-old middleweight. “I miss my family, but soon I (will go) back to Poland, meet with my wife, meet with my daughters, but this is my business, this is normal for me; I am a warrior.

“But Fighting Nerds is very good — a great atmosphere, good people; a great choice.”

As Jon Anik mentioned during the UFC 314 broadcast, Oleksiejczuk began his career at light heavyweight, sharing the Octagon with Khalil Rountree Jr. in his promotional debut, logging a 4-3 record with one no contest through his first eight appearances before opting to relocate to the 185-pound ranks. He’s split his first eight appearances at middleweight, earning finishes in each of his victories while landing on the wrong side of things against his now teammate Borralho and the talented trio mentioned above.

“My game is better,” he said when asked about the improvements he’s noticed over his two camps in Sao Paulo. “Now I think after my second camp with Fighting Nerds, my game is complete. My grappling, my wrestling is better, my movement is better, and step-by-step I am better in my MMA game.

“I have a lot of experience in the UFC; this is my 17th fight,” he added. “My experience is big and now I think this is my time. This is the best disposition, and I am ready for the fight; I am ready for a great performance for my Brazilian and Polish fans.”

In addition to being unquestionably good people, the team is stylish and unmistakable as well, between their signature glasses that are donned following every victory, and their custom letterman jackets which are rolled out each time one member of the squad is set to compete.

Each member has their own colorway and markers, and while he already has the glasses, Oleksiejczuk is hopeful that his second appearance with the team will result in his being presented with his own Fighting Nerds jacket.

“I have Fighting Nerds glasses; this is an honor for me and a great idea,” he said with a smile when asked about the team’s signature piece of merchandise. “Fighting Nerds are a team whose coaches learn all day, every day — new techniques, new style, great tactics — so it’s a great name for this place.

“I want to finish my opponent; this is my style,” he said, stating his intentions for his bout this weekend. “I think in this fight, maybe I finish my opponent from distance, in the striking.

“For me, it’s a very good fight,” he added. “Chimaev-Du Plessis, Prates-Neal, and I believe my fight will be very exciting for fans on Saturday, as well.”