Not many fighters get the chance to compete on the biggest stage in the sport in their hometown, and the opportunity is even more scarce for those born outside of major cities.

Most adopt an “as close as I’ll come” approach, turning bouts in their home state or country into marquee fights that carry greater meaning and significance, like the Canadian contingent making the walk to the Octagon in the Great Fight North, athletes from the United Kingdom competing in London, and the Australian/New Zealander and Asian competitors on the roster getting to throw down in Australia or China, respectively.

“It’s not gonna be a fair fight to fight me in an MMA bout.”

“I put it behind me because this game is forgetful in good and bad ways, so you’ve gotta put things behind you quick. You can’t hold attachments to losses or wins,” offered the measured and thoughtful fighter, who came up with the Serra-Longo Fight Team in New York before making the move to Syndicate MMA. “I put it behind me, but any time that I just see that and see the crowd reaction on reels — it’s forever, man; it’s forever.

“It's where I dreamed to be. I literally cried and suffered and grinded for days like this. These are the fruits of my labor. The flipside is that this is where the hardest work starts. This isn’t the top of the mountain. This is the start of the climb to the top of the mountain, so these are my steps, this is my climb.

“Every single bout you see are my steps towards the top of the mountain, and I’m not anywhere near where I want to be and who I’m going to be, God-willing of course.”

“I’m not proud of myself; the job is not done,” he added. “I’m not sitting in a mansion with 11 cars in the driveway, with my family set forever. I’m not in a position yet for me to be prideful.

“Of course I’m happy, of course I’m excited — these accomplishments mean a lot to me — but if I take pride in that, that’s telling me that I accomplished something, and I haven’t accomplished anything. I’m still a nobody in this game, and I wanna keep it that way because that’s what is going to help me step up and rise to the occasion every time.”

“As far as the matchup, does it excite me? Of course.”

So too does the potential of what another victory this weekend brings, especially after having been stuck on the sidelines for the whole of 2024.

“It’s kinda big,” he said, bursting out laughing when asked about registering a three victories this year and pushing his overall unbeaten streak to 13. ”When I’m 12-0 with all finishes, then that’s big-big!

“But seriously, it’s what I wanted. This is gonna put me in a very good position, and 2026, I’m not thinking about it, but if and when this victory comes and next year rolls around, I’m gonna come in at an even higher level, even more leveled up, even bigger momentum, and people will see exactly how dangerous I am.”

Consider that your invitation and reminder to tune in on Saturday evening.