Some nights feel magical right from the start, others just build and build and build until the final punches are thrown and you’re left standing gobsmacked, attempting to process everything you just witnessed and what it all means.

UFC 317 garnered momentum early and was building into the main card, but over the final three bouts, Saturday’s International Fight Week capstone went from being a tremendously enjoyable night of fights to something much greater.

Here are the takeaways and thoughts that I was left with following this past weekend’s incredible pay-per-view at T-Mobile Arena.

Lots of people get a little prickly when you start talking about the pantheon status of a relatively young fighter. Heck, I generally get a little prickly when folks are quick to anoint someone as an all-time great in a sport that has honestly had only a few truly transcendent talents pass through over the years.

It’s not just one thing with the 28-year-old, who claimed the vacant title and reached “double champ” status by dispatching Charles Olivera midway through the opening round of the UFC 317 main event — it’s how the whole package has come together and is presented, and how his personal brand of panache and style draws you in, rather than pushes you away.

He’s predicted his victories with such calm clarity that you wonder if he can see the future, and can’t help but be impressed when things play out as he's forecasted. Plus, there is just a suaveness to the man that radiates cool and says, “I’m a world class athlete” in a way that no other mixed martial artist to date has been able to do.

And then there is the who and the how.

Some folks don't like watching greatness, watching dominant athletes dominate time and again, but I’m not one of those people.

The Topuria Era is already fascinating to me, and I can’t wait to see where it goes from here.

And more likely than naught, he’s going to dominate them, adding another ruby to his flyweight title before receding back into the shadows until it’s time for him to be brilliant all over again later in the year.

Towards the end of last year, I put together a piece reviewing what transpired on Season 8 of Dana White’s Contender Series. In that feature, I suggested that the top-end talent to earn contracts in this most recent season had the chance to be something special, and put last season in the mix as the best crop of graduates yet.

Saturday night, a couple members of the class delivered performances that further strengthened that case.

Nine fights, eight wins, and the No. 1 contender in a talent-rich division like flyweight, all in two years plus a couple of days.

Oh… and he's only 23 too.

This kid is bananas.

And with that, I’m out.

See you again after UFC 318