
No, you don’t.

Most fighters enjoy the greatest period of prolonged success in the regional ranks, where early fights against fellow newcomers and weekend warriors give way to matchups with staples of the scene that are meant to weed out those that don’t quite got it or maybe don’t want it enough to push through those lean years when chasing your dreams earns you a few hundred bucks, a black eye, and grief from your friends when you bail on another party or trip or Monday Night Football game.

“It’s great, man; it’s a blessing,” said the humble Dana White’s Contender Series alum, when asked about headlining in the UFC for the first time. “I’ve said this a couple of times, and I keep saying it because it came to fruition: in my gym in my house, I have all the posters (from the events) I participated in on the wall, and I was telling my dad, ‘I like having all these posters, but there’s none with my face on it. I’m gonna get one with my face on it; you watch.’

“Now it’s come to fruition and it’s one of my own, so that’s one for the books, at least in my book.”

“While they’re all trying to debate who is gonna get the next title shot, I’m just gonna keep doing what I’m doing. While everyone else is waiting, I’m gonna go to work. One, this is how I provide for my family, and two, this is just part of it. There is no easy way to the top. I’ve been at the very bottom, and I had to crawl and climb up to this position; I had to beat everybody to be at this particular spot.”

“I’m living the Rocky Balboa storyline more than anything else,” continued Garcia. “I didn’t have a name, I didn’t have this big old following, I didn’t have a country behind me; I’m just a kid outta Albuquerque, New Mexico that was lucky enough to not quit. That’s my story: is that I didn’t quit!

“I kept pushing through, kept fighting, and I feel like I earned my spot here in the gym, and then on the regional scene, and then finally I was able to get the opportunity to go fight for the UFC. After a few adjustments and some speed bumps that I needed, I was able to figure it out and look where we’re at now — Top 15!”

Six straight wins in the featherweight division? Five of them by stoppage? And the chance to make it seven in this weekend’s main event?