
While there were certainly technical elements and skill-based pieces that needed attention, some of the most important work centered around the routine elements in a fighter’s life that aren’t always afforded time and attention, like strength and conditioning and weight cutting approaches.

“There is a lot of stuff like that where now that we’ve had a year off, we could actually test these things.”

“As a kid coming into the sport, you get surrounded by a lot of people and you kind of get complacent in terms of who you are allowing into your inner circle, so being able to address stuff like that. Focusing on the stuff that is important to me, focusing on who I want to be as a person, outside of fighting, and making that connection between who we are as fighters and who we are as people.

It’s easy to lose sight of the fact that some of these athletes are still young adults figuring things out on the fly, choosing to look at them instead for where they are and what they’re doing, rather than remembering how challenging those years were navigating, in most cases, a more modest life.

“If I throw a rock out of this window, I’m probably hitting some of the best fighters in the world down in the parking lot. When I got the name, I was just excited — it was a date that made sense, it was outside of the APEX, which was great, and I took it as a compliment.

Though there are definitely going to be changes to his game and all-around development, the affable South African promised that, at his core, he’s still going to be the same “Most Savage Player” once he steps back into the Octagon on Saturday.

“You’ll still see the fun ‘MSP,’” he pledged, still a little revved up. “I’m still gonna come out smiling, and I’m gonna have fun in there; that’s something I can guarantee you. I’m always looking to put up an exciting fight. Win or lose, in my 11 professional bouts, I don’t think I’ve ever had a boring fight, and I pride myself on that, so I want to continue that streak.

“If I go out there with an open heart and do what I do best, we’re gonna get the finish, and I’m really looking forward to it.”

Having spoken with him several times in the past and listening to him on Tuesday, it’s clear that these first couple years on the UFC roster were a whirlwind for the engaging and promising prospect, and that pressing pause was clearly something that he needed to do in order to properly reset things.

Just a handful of days away from striding out to the Octagon again, his excitement is palpable, even through a Zoom call, but so too is the fact that being back on the cusp of competing means more to him than words can express.

When I asked him what a victory this weekend would mean, the excitement turned to vulnerability as Saaiman welled up, tears gathering in his eyes.

“It’s… it’s… this one is gonna feel really good,” he said as a wave of emotion rushed over him. “I’m actually getting emotional.

“It’s gonna feel really good,” he added, taking a big deep breath to ward off the tears and allow himself the ability to speak. “It’s been a… it’s been a good year, but it’s been a tough year, so it’s gonna be a fun one to get back.”