
He continued smiling. I immediately stopped laughing alongside him.

“There is no place in Cameroon where you can have this kind of dream,” he continued. “They are still dreaming, but that’s not (possible); I can’t, I won’t be there. You can’t dream like that when you’re in Cameroon. That’s not a dream — it’s a hallucination or an illusion; it’s not a dream at all.

“Five years ago, I would have said no,” he added. “Now that I’m here, everything is possible.”

These are the kinds of things you don’t necessarily consider when you’re a 46-year-old white Canadian male, born into a middle-class family where attending university wasn’t an option, but an expectation, and very few careers ever seemed out of reach.

Sure, I had childhood hallucinations of growing to be six-foot-four and turning my obsession with basketball and mediocre jump shot into an extended career in the NBA, but only reaching five-ten and never finding consistency with my jumper just meant that I had to shift my focus to one of the multitude of professional options available to me.

These are the kinds of things you don’t necessarily consider when you’re a 46-year-old white Canadian male, born into a middle-class family where attending university wasn’t an option, but an expectation, and very few careers ever seemed out of reach.

Sure, I had childhood hallucinations of growing to be six-foot-four and turning my obsession with basketball and mediocre jump shot into an extended career in the NBA, but only reaching five-ten and never finding consistency with my jumper just meant that I had to shift my focus to one of the multitude of professional options available to me.

“I want to achieve something in my life, and I know I’m in a good place, have good people next to me, so I just focus on my goals. I will think about (what it means) later. Now I need to be in the moment.

“I have a fight, so let’s focus on the fight; live the moment.”

“I don’t know if I will find a word, but I’m going to try,” he said, taking a beat to express things as best as he could. “Now I’m just trying to live the moment; to be here in the moment. I don’t want to be somewhere (else) or think about the future; I don’t want to know my emotion now.

“For me it was like sparring with someone without shinguards, without any protection; that’s how I thought about it in my mind to make it easy. In my head, even with 20,000 people (in the arena), I’m just going to fight against one guy, so it’s just him.”

“For me it was like sparring with someone without shinguards, without any protection; that’s how I thought about it in my mind to make it easy. In my head, even with 20,000 people (in the arena), I’m just going to fight against one guy, so it’s just him.”

“Everyone is human, everyone can get knocked out by something. You’re human, so be humble. I know I have the power that I can knock anyone out; I just need to touch you in the right moment, land one good punch.”

Or, as was the case when they fought, one really good knee.

No vacation, no celebration, no Las Vegas chaos — just right back to work.

“I love fighting, I have no fears to do it, and I like (being in the gym). I’m still learning, so why should I stop? There are no days off. Even on my day off, I’m doing something.”

That “Why stop?” mentality carries over to the way he views his career in the UFC, as well.

“I will win the fight — I’m gonna knock this guy out — so just give me a fight. Next week there is a card: if they want me next week, just give me the fight; I’ll knock this guy out and then knock (the next guy out), very quick. You order and I deliver, easy.”

So a Sunday morning flight from New Orleans to Abu Dhabi, where a pair of middleweight contests are slated for the main card and could perhaps require a short-notice replacement?