It’s exceptionally rare in Hollywood for a sequel to surpass the achievements and acclaim of the original, though there have been a few historic instances where that happened.

Your mileage may vary on which of The Godfather and The Godfather Part II is better, but The Empire Strikes Back is unquestionably superior to A New Hope, Terminator 2 is miles ahead of its cult classic predecessor, and The Dark Knight is so incredibly better than Batman Begins that you almost forget they’re part of the same franchise.

“It’s very hard to make a sequel better than the original, but I’m gonna make sure the sequel is better than the original,” the 25-year-old said with a smile, beaming at the thought of competing in his hometown this weekend and the movie-like experience the early stages of his UFC career has been thus far.

“In my head, because there was so much behind it — it was my UFC debut, in Macau, there was so much going on — that I was like, ‘I don’t want to make any mistakes.’ It made me a bit more reserved than I normally would be.

With a victory in hand, Kavanagh mentioned in his backstage interview with Maddyn Johnstone-Thomas that making his sophomore start when the UFC returned to London would be a dream come true.

Well, here we are.

“I’m very excited,” he said when asked about getting his wish, a bright smile lighting his face as he shifted in his chair, the anticipatory energy coursing through his body making it difficult for him to sit still as he discussed this weekend’s event. “Honestly, if you were to say to me five years ago, 10 years ago, ‘You’re gonna be in the UFC, where do you wanna make your debut and then where do you wanna fight next?’ I would have been like, ‘It would be a dream to fightin China, in my mum’s hometown, and then I would love to fight at The O2 Arena in London.’

“The fact that it’s happened like this is insane. I truly believe it’s God’s plan, and I’m excited to do this. I get to fight in my own city for my second-ever UFC fight, after fighting in my second home city.

“It’s definitely surreal.”

While it may feel surreal to Kavanagh, it’s also a byproduct of the efforts he’s put forth to this point in his career, and the heaps of buzz he carries as an emerging name in one of the most talent-rich divisions in the sport.

Because there is so much MMA content out there to consume and innumerable athletes to discuss on a weekly basis, the weight of some words that get used to describe these competitors can sometimes be lost, and there is often little time given to provide context or dive into the nuances that differentiate one competitor from another when they’re on a similar track.

Kavangh is a capital P Prospect — an undefeated fighter that faced quality competition in an outstanding promotion before landing on the UFC stage, and who exhibits the skills, work ethic, and intangibles necessary to be deservedly stamped as carrying future champion upside.

Carrying that label and being heralded by everyone with a platform in this space as someone to pay close attention to going forward brings the kind of pressure that either bursts pipes or makes diamonds, depending on the athlete.

Speaking to Kavanagh about it, you quickly recognize that there will be no need to call a plumber.

“At the same time, I love that — it pushes me to always want more, and it pushes me in training every day. It’s like, ‘If people believe I’m this person, I’m gonna make sure I do everything I can to do what they believe.’

“For me, it helps push me and helps me keep going. I love this.”

That’s not just fighter-speak either.

“To be honest with you, I get what you mean, but I look at every fight like it’s the hardest fight of my life; I train like it’s a world championship,” he said. “There is that pressure that I still need to prove to everyone that I belong here, but I also want to prove to myself that I belong here,and I can make people that are very good look not so good; that’s always my aim.”

Though he’s entering off a unanimous decision loss, the 24-year-old has more experience — both in the UFC and overall — than Kavanagh, and represents another step up in competition.

“He’s a good fighter, but I think it’s a good fight,” Kavanagh said with a wry smile when asked about the pairing. “It will be an entertaining fight and a good fight to me. I’m looking forward to showing what I can do.

From his dashing good looks and the way he carries himself to the quality performances he’s already delivered and limitless upside many believe he possesses, Kavanagh may very well be poised to become one of the UFC’s next leading men over the next couple years, which means this weekend might not simply be the sequel to his debut, but part of a larger flyweight franchise.

For now, he’s focused on Saturday — on making the walk inside The O2, on showcasing the abundance of talent and skill he carries with him into the Octagon, and on earning the ending to this latest film he’s been dreaming about since he was a little kid doing ninja s*** with UFC ambitions dancing in his head.

“It will mean everything to me. It’s a dream come true,” he said of earning a win this weekend, shaking his head in disbelief that everything he’s conjured in his mind is playing out before him. “This almost doesn’t feel real.

“I think it’s hard to put into words how much it will mean to me — fighting in my hometown, in the UFC, and getting my hand raised; it will be a surreal experience.

“God’s plan.”

Welcome to the Lone’er Kavanagh Saga.