
“At middleweight, there's some horrible memories there. The weight cut’s horrible, the lack of calories, it was taking away from having a nice life.

“So, one of the things when we looked at moving back up was there were so many benefits. So why would we stay at middleweight and keep trudging through that sand when we weren't getting what we were wanting from the sport? (Now I’m) back up at light heavyweight, loads of fuel and able to train to my full potential.”

“There's areas of the sport that's changing so much, and I believe that all fighters should know the rules inside and out.

“Not only that, (learning) why it was a no contest and not a disqualification, picking shots better – there's a whole host of things I've taken away from that. But one of the best things I've taken away from it is the fact that we went from a 12-week fight camp to a four-week fight camp, and went straight back in for this fight card in Paris.”

“You know, I would love to have run that fight back again, and actually get to finish him, because I do believe the way I was feeling in that first fight (camp), the second fight (camp), I get better each time. The third time was going to be special (and) we will see something beautiful.

Now, all I've done is capitalized on that moment and up-skilled, got better, got fitter, got stronger, for my fight against Modestas.”

“I do believe I can capitalize on areas where he's weak. I believe my jiu-jitsu is one of the best at light heavyweight, and over the last three years, my jiu-jitsu has got better.

“But not only that, you’ve seen improvements in my striking. My striking game has improved exponentially, so I’m looking forward to showcasing that against a guy like Modestas Bukauskas, who has great stand-up. We've seen him with his one-two, we've seen him putting people away with his strikes. I'm looking forward to this.”

“I’ve had a couple of TKOs, had a couple of cool submissions, but I would love a knockout. You know, when you see the guys land the heavy shot, walk away, and especially, see if this could be done in the first round, see if this could be done in the first minute, that'd be even easier.

But that's not how this sport works, and I imagine this is going to be a battle, and this is why it's put on this card. It’s a battle of the two top light heavyweights in Britain. There’s going to be blood, there's going to be sweat, there's going to be tears, and there's only going to be one victor.”

“Everybody who steps in the Octagon wants to be a world champion,” he said.

“My journey has been a wee bit up and down. I've had a couple of losses, been in a bit of a skid at the moment, but there has to be a turning point for me to keep doing this sport. There has to be this victory, this knockout, this submission – this is what I'm known for. I'm known for exciting fights. You give me that (and) I'll keep doing this sport.”

“When you go to these parks, like Disneyland, and you use your queue skip, you pay that extra bit of money.