
“It's not even like the glamour, or the adrenaline. I think it's more the time that the training partners (give) that are trying to get into UFC, the time that the coaches are away from their kids. That’s the stuff that really hits home for me now, as a new dad, a father of a four-year-old and a two-year-old.

“I know it might be a little cringe, but, yeah, I think it's a lot of just gratitude. Gratitude of having people that are willing to go out there and fight with you, too.”

“I was super satisfied with my career,” he recalled.

“Even now, even though I've taken a bunch of these L’s, which sucks, I’m still very satisfied and happy with my career where I (achieved) everything that I set out to do, and then some.

“If I was to give myself advice, no, I feel like I did the right thing. I was able to start a family, learn business and really understand true love with my kids.

"You'll do anything, you'll let go of that legacy or that status where somebody could potentially get you, for these two kids that see me with just open eyes. They just want dad. And to me, that's the coolest part.”

"And I feel like now, with fighting, I'm really good friends with a lot of these legends, and I see that there's a lot of opportunities that they could do where they can make a better living. I would like to help out on that route.”

“There's one thing that I'm really good at – I'm good at sales and branding and connecting myself with real estate and pretty much kind of showing financial freedom to these guys,” he explained.

"I’m getting ready to build my dream home. I'm buying a multi-million-dollar lot. If I wasn't, if I was broke, I wouldn't be able to be in this position. But I would love to help out a lot of these guys that have the name, but just don't understand how to connect the dots.”

“It is what it is. I wrestled all my friends in competition. It was always, it’s either you or me, it doesn’t mean we can’t be friends afterwards, you know?

“I like the pressure, I really do, man. I like the fact that they're giving me a tall kid that is a prominent star, and I want to spoil the party.”

“I had fun with all of them. ‘The Messenger’, I guess you could say I'm a nice guy, but I'm also a little edgy. I just wanted to be a good example in the beginning of my career, to being an Olympic champion and the whole nine (yards).

"But I was falling into it and I was just like, ‘No. I’m just more of a shit-talker,’ and that’s truly more of who I am. It wasn’t until I really started to understand the game a little bit, that I had to adapt. So that was fun.”

“I competed so damn much in my career. I probably have over 1,000 wrestling matches. And that's matches – it’s not even including practice, you know? Thousands of rounds of sparring.

“To me, it’s all the same shit. To me, it's just personal, and it's business.”

“It's gonna be a fight. With his length and what he brings to the table, it's gonna be a fight,” he said.

“Obviously, I can't give a lot of the gameplan away, but I'm gonna have to stick to it. I think that the biggest thing is my experience.

“He is dangerous, and he does have a six-inch height advantage on me, but that doesn't mean anything unless you truly know how to use it. So it's my job to adapt and make those adjustments at that point in time.

“And yeah, of course, I'd love to get a finish, you know? But I know the young buck is strong. But, either way, my hand’s getting raised.”