Originally a war cry, the fa’auma is now more commonly used as a way of expressing excitement or happiness, and on that particular evening last week, it was an acknowledgement to and from Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson and the WWE Universe that each was happy to see the other and excited to see how the first Monday Night Raw on Netflix would soon unfold.

When presented with the idea of splicing last Monday’s fa’auma onto the start of whatever track he chooses for his walkout music on Saturday night at UFC 311, the promotional newcomer’s eyes lit up.

“Let’s go!”

“Everybody told me, ‘I think you have a shot in the UFC!’”

“I talked to my coach, talked to my manager, they told me, and I was like, ‘Let’s do it!’

“It’s one of those things where you can’t let an opportunity like this pass,” continued Elekana, who enters on a four-fight winning streak and sporting a 7-1 mark as a professional. “Even if I didn’t get enough time to train or whatever, none of that matters — you have to go in and find a way to win.

“You’ve got to click. You’ve got to be one of the guys that can click and go, and I believe I’m one of those guys.”

“Yes, it’s the biggest promotion in the world, but it’s nothing new, though; a fight is a fight at the end of the day. His mentality versus my mentality. His hard work versus my hard work; that’s all it comes down to. I know he’s a scary guy, but I’m a big Samoan; I can take a punch. The fight is gonna happen how the fight happens.

“I’m ready for this,” he added with a grin. “I think it’s the perfect time for me, too: I’m 29, reaching my prime, and I think this is a perfect opportunity for me. It’s a good fight for me. I’m gonna really figure out who I am in this fight.”

“He’s a monster — everybody knows who this guy is,” Elekana said of Guskov, whom he acknowledged being a fan of and having paid close attention to his last couple outings. “He’s a scary guy, the hardest guy I have ever fought, but I think it will be a good fight.

“I think it will be a good test for me — I get to test myself against a high, high-level fighter, and I’m excited. I’m excited, but I’m even more grateful for the opportunity, the position I’m in, and I’m just ready to go out there and perform.”

“He has a lot of holes when it comes to the grappling game,” he said. “I’m not saying I’m just gonna grapple this guy — I’m gonna stand with him, for sure — but if the opportunity presents itself, I will take that opportunity.

“I’m gonna sit in there, be patient, but I will try to snipe this guy’s face off. I’m not going to play in there. I’m very sharp with everything I do, very patient, but if this guy leaves me any openings, I will make him pay.

“And if I hit him, he will fall.”

If that happens, expect to hear a lot more chee hoos echoing through the Intuit Dome on Saturday night.