Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes.

Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Best Trait of Each Fighter

Barraco: I think it’s critical for a fighter to have that.

You can teach people technique. If I’m given enough time with someone, I can make them technically sound, but what exists in the mind and what exists in the heart — you’re not teaching that, completely. You can improve on something that is already there, but you’re not going to give it to somebody that doesn’t have it at all.

If that person has quit in them, it’s there, period. I would much rather take somebody with no quit, tenacity, and toughness, and then teach them the technique over somebody that quits.

Barraco: Now it’s “you’ve got to finish me.”

How big is it to have someone that has that one world-class skill — that single talent that differentiates you from everyone else — when it comes to getting ready to step in there?

Barraco: It provides an entire new level of confidence.

Kyte: What’s the path to victory for each of them?

Kyte: Survive and get into the championship rounds.

Barraco: Early takedown and ground control.

“I’m gonna back you up all the way to that barrier, and I’m not gonna let you go. I’m gonna clinch up with you, I’m gonna get you down, and I’m gonna use my legs to work inside and outside sweeps and trips to get you down.”

Kyte: Yeah, this very much feels like one where if it’s done early, it’s going one way, and if we go deeper into things, it gets interesting and could be going another way.

Kyte: What are your X-factors for these two?

Barraco: Yeah, it’s a wrap.

Barraco: Me too.

Kyte: In terms of a curiosity point, what’s the thing you’re looking to see or the question you want answered?

Barraco: For me, there is the clash of styles, and then knowing one’s mental fortitude for certain — I feel — and not knowing the other one, and I want to see how those things all line up.

Kyte: (Eric) Nicksick always throws out that one Robert Follis line…

Barraco: “I don’t want a fair fight!”

Kyte: That’s it!

Barraco: “I’m not saying cheat, but I’m not looking for a fair fight.”

Kyte: Right! If you’ve got an advantage…

Barraco: Right — you’re not engaging as you should be, and all of sudden, you’re in a grappling situation because you were waiting on something.

Barraco: It is difficult to do things differently, especially as the fight is happening.

I think it’s easier to learn something new that isn’t trying to counter your opponent’s biggest strength, if that makes sense. So if you’re fighting Harrison thinking you’re going to work all camp to come out a better grappler, it’s not likely to happen, but it’s also going to prompt you to probably try to do it more in the fight, because you’re doing it all camp.

Adding some footwork stuff in and getting off-line after combos? You can do that. Pad-holders can implement that. They could be doing drills over and over; Nicksick and I are big on drills to implement that kind of stuff in terms of footwork and movement and angles because it doesn’t necessarily always happen in sparring.

But if you take all that into sparring, you’re usually more likely to take some of that and implement it into the fight.

Kyte: It’s gonna be an interesting one.

Barraco: Oh yeah!