
“We stepped foot in the stadium, I warmed up, and I was still feeling a little off, feeling a little tired, I wasn’t sure what was going on. I was like, ‘Man, I feel like I can’t get going.’”

“As soon as they were like, ‘You’re up next,’ a switch flipped in my head and I was ready,” he added with a laugh. “I felt great. I was good to go. Mentally I was all there, the fight happened, and it was just crazy.”

“I just flipped a script in my head and said, ‘I get to do this. I get to fight. I get to be here. I’m grateful that I get to do what I love,’ and it just let me go out there and perform.”

“For this second run, I don’t want to fight anybody Top 15 or anything like that just yet,” continued the man who admitted he’s more of an “if I want something, I get it” type than someone who likes to wait on gifts, including at Christmas. “I don’t think I’m anywhere near there right now. I should probably fight somebody outside of that. If there was a Top 25, somebody in there.

“I’m 32, I probably have four or five more years in this before things start to slow down, so I wanna make the run for that gold in this next two or three years, but I know I have to be patient.”

“My wife is due the first week or second week of December,” said the proud and expecting father, who is readying to welcome a second boy to the mix later this year. “My first son was five weeks early, and I feel like this one will maybe be here early too, so he could potentially be here Thanksgiving.

“I know there’s (Madison Square Garden) on the 15th, a couple cards in December,” he added. "I’ve talked to my wife already and she understands and said, ‘If a fight comes, you take it, you fight’ because this is what I do for a living, and we’ll figure it out with the baby, so I’m hoping to get on that MSG card or something even in December.”

“I want to challenge myself — that’s what this sport is about is challenging yourself,” he said. “I think I’m ready for it, I’m mature enough for it, and I’m completely different person now, so I’ll take whoever they give me next.”