Most athletes that compete at the highest level of their sport will tell you that, without question, they absolutely love the game they play, the craft they pursue, the game that serves as their occupation and means of putting money in the bank, food on the table, and roofs over heads.

King Green has never and will never be most anything.

“The crazy thing is you say, ‘Something I love,’ but this is not something I love,” corrected the 38-year-old lightweight veteran when asked about continuing to compete and using his position on the UFC roster to show those that come from similar circumstances that you can create better for yourself. “You get locked in there with another pit bull and it’s to the death, that’s not something you can love, but it speaks to the determination: I was willing to do anything, anything to get myself out of financial poverty.

“It’s something I had to do, and I figured, I’m so used to fighting and I’ve got this thing kinda down to where I could make some money off of it. I thought I was being smart. But it is a ruthless sport where anything is possible, and you might not come out the same.

“You gotta like it to do it, but, at the same time, the idea of it?” he continued, acquiescing to the fact that there are elements of the sport that he enjoys when pushed to define his relationship with the sport he’s been competing in for the last 18 years. “If I’m just at the gym and we’re just having fun, it sounds cool, but when we’re talking about to the death and they’re locking you in there with the world’s best — the strongest pit bulls they can find — and they’re telling you, ‘Go in there and see if you can live?’”

But that doesn’t mean he’s going to stop making the walk, because, as previously mentioned, this has always been about something much bigger than him stepping into the Octagon to compete.

“Man, it means the world,” he said when asked about navigating everything he’s endured to stand as a symbol of what is possible for those dealing with similar challenges, whether in Inland Empire or elsewhere. “Showing people that you can come from nothing — being in 50 different homes; I’ve lived off peoples’ crumbs, slept on the streets, and more — and to go from that to this, it’s an honor and a blessing.

“I’m just trying to write the story and show people ‘don’t give up; have determination, have true grit’ and that you can dig deep through the wins and losses.

“I’ve taken so many Ls — not just inside of the cage, but outside of the cage — and I’m still fighting and I’m not gonna stop.”

Figuratively, he’s not going to stop, but in the literal sense, the 26-fight UFC veteran knows that he’s going to have to walk away eventually.

As of right now, the marker he’s set for himself is not a certain number of fights or any one victory in particular, but rather the continued presence of a recent opponent.

“Yeah, yeah, that’s gonna be interesting — see how you dance and how I dance; how we’re gonna mingle and how this is gonna work out,” he said excitedly in regard to Ruffy potentially trying to match some of his flamboyance and showmanship on Saturday night. “It should be real interesting.

“He’s talented and he does some smooth, slick stuff, but he ain’t seen anything like me yet,” he added. “Wait ’til we get in there — I’m gonna change this s*** up so much on him; he wasn’t ready for this.”

In a career filled with ups and downs, and a life that has been even more tumultuous, the fact that Green continues to make the trek into battle two or three times year, no matter the outcome of his previous assignment, remains a testament to his perseverance, and his uncanny ability to roll with the punches, inside, as well as outside of the cage.

“It’s just the story,” he said of his impressive resolve. “I understand my skills and my abilities, I understand what was going on in these different fights, why people were victorious and why (different things) happened, and you just write the story and do the best you can.”