
“When I had set the fight, I was very happy,” continued the promising welterweight prospect. “I was thinking it was the perfect time — a short time after the first fight, I can show the people — but then I had this injury and I had to withdraw.

“It was a hard time for me then because I was doing a lot of physio stuff, a lot of stuff to be back in shape again, but we did a very good job. I’m back, better than ever, and I’m ready to go on Saturday.”

The idea of an athlete garnering a tremendous amount of support after punching their ticket to the UFC may sound like an exaggeration to North American audiences that have watched competitors from throughout the United States and Canada frequently make the jump to MMA’s major league, but the sport is experiencing tremendous growth and a massive surge in popularity and attention abroad.

And in countries that have historically had little representation on the largest platforms in the sport, a fighter simply touching down in the UFC is massive news, and brings a massive influx of attention for the new signee.

Increased attention can also mean increased pressure, but the 26-year-old freshman doesn’t see things that way.

“When I was there, I looked around and it was a room full of killers — very good fighters, very tough fighters,” he said of the Coconut Creek gym. “There are no bad people there, and I trained with the best fighters in the world at middleweight and welterweight. I had some great sparring rounds, and it was a great opportunity for me to learn new stuff, to see how strong I am actually.

“When I went there, I was like, ‘These are big names, big people here,’ but when I made sparring rounds, I was like, ‘Okay.’”

The smile on his face grew wide as he nodded his head, silently acknowledging that he held his own alongside more seasoned, more established competitors.

He’s also extremely eager for people to see him competing at full strength, as, like a great deal of fighters competing outside of the UFC, a lot of Dulatov’s previous assignments have offered limited prep time, constant changes in opponents, and inadequate training.

Now, the surging welterweight is firing on all cylinders, ready to put on a show and extend his winning streak to an even dozen by delivering a memorable performance in his maiden voyage into the UFC cage.

“The last fights I had were always short preparation, bad preparation; a few weeks preparation,” he said. “As I said after my Contender Series fight, that was 25-30 percent of my body because I was not in shape there; I had a lot of injuries at the time.

“I’m happy I had a full camp and that everything went the right way, with great people around us, great coaches. You will see, inshallah, the best version of my life, the best performance. The people that have never seen my fights before, they will be happy.”

“They say the first step in the hardest, and I went the hard way — went to the Contender Series; had a hard fight with a good guy there — and now it’s my first step in the UFC. I’m happy and this feeling I will never forget in my life again.”