September isn’t a month that typically comes to mind when thinking about massive moments in UFC history the way that June, July, November and December often do thanks to tentpole events like International Fight Week, the annual trip to Madison Square Garden and the final pay-per-view of the year.

But a quick scan of the list below will remind you that the first month of autumn has been host to some truly impactful contests over the years, including one of the 10 bouts that has been enshrined in the UFC Hall of Fame and last year’s consensus Fight of the Year winner.

Here’s a reminder of some of the outstanding action that has taken place inside the Octagon in the month of September.

Rua was widely considered to be the best light heavyweight on the planet — a young legend with a 16-2 record whose mythical run through the 2005 PRIDE Middleweight Grand Prix stood as one of the most impressive series of victories put forth in a single year by any competitor.

This fight and the flyweight division as a whole arrived at a time when many UFC fans were not ready to see the level of speed, technique, and all-around skill that was frequently on display when fighters from the 125-pound weight class stepped into the Octagon.

This is one of those fights that people should go back and revisit because it’s absolutely terrific.

Speaking of terrific fights that took place in Toronto…

Ten fights have been enshrined in the UFC Hall of Fame and this is one of them, which instantly tells you it was special. Simply put, it was a pantheon-level fight that changed how we looked at both men.

Those two fights were massive, and this is where that rivalry first took root.

Here’s how close this fight was: a total of 22 individual media submitted their scores for the September 2017 women’s bantamweight title fight to MMADecisions.com, a website dedicated to having searchable records of the scores and scorecards from fights that go to a decision in several major promotions.

In addition to showing the official scorecards of all three judges, the media scores are presented in a divided column detailing how each submitting member scored the contest.\

And tell me: who wouldn’t want to see it?

Because I know some of you reading this just said, “What’s a Suloev Stretch?” it’s essentially a kneebar executed from on your opponent’s back where you extend one of their legs as they’re trying to tripod or position themselves with both feet and hands on the canvas. You know those moments where you shout “Why doesn’t he just grab his leg and yank it forward?” when someone is wrapped around their opponent’s back and that person is defending well?

The reason I chose to spotlight this particular moment out of all the cool moments in UFC history that happened in September is because we haven’t even seen one Suloev Stretch since then, let alone two.

We might see consecutive kimuras or spinning elbows again before we see tandem backpack kneebars inside the Octagon.

It’s not the greatest upset in UFC history, but it’s certainly on the short list.

So what did we all think was going to happen when they were paired together with Noche UFC at Sphere as the backdrop?

It shouldn’t be a surprise that the dueling lightweights went out and captured Fight of the Year because of course they did; it was their destiny.