Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes.

Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Best Trait of Each Fighter

Barraco: Easiest path to victory. Why would I play into your positive attributes as far as the fight goes?

Coach Follis used to say all the time, “I don’t want it to be a fair fight.” He would say, “I don’t mean go out and cheat, but if you’re a boxer, I’m certainly not gonna go out there and just box you the whole time.”

It’s an MMA fight — take it where it needs to go for what you can do, what they can do, but also what they can’t do or what you can’t do.

We see five-foot-seven and think, “That’s not overly big,” but for a female fighter, at flyweight; it’s big. We know the cut is difficult, but she uses all of that size, all of that strength, all of that physicality, couple with the fact that she’s gonna hit you a bazillion times.

Kyte: For sure, and for me, I love these situations where the best traits kind of interact with each other in this way.

We’re gonna see strength against strength, but they’re contrasting.

Kyte: So what’s the path to victory for each of them?

Barraco: Great point — you definitely don’t wanna repeat that.

Barraco: We just haven’t seen it.

Barraco: For sure; I agree.

Kyte: If there is an X-factor in this fight, what would it be?

Kyte: It’s interesting — we talk about the championship thing every time we get one of these fights, especially when it’s someone that hasn’t been there before.

Obviously I don’t know — I’m not a fighter, I’ve never cornered somebody in that situation — but from covering the sport for 15 years, I’ve seen enough fights where I can tell that with some people, when they get to this spot, it’s just a bit much for them.

Barraco: Yep!

Barraco: Wow! That’s crazy. That’s actually wild.

Kyte: And so you’re up against that!

Barraco: And that last pound is the worst!

Kyte: I just want to see what she looks like throughout the week, because she’s been waiting onthis one. Is that a good thing or a bad thing? She could come out dialed in, ready to go, been working the last year to keep the weight low, figure out how to make the cut a little easier…

Barraco: Yeah, there is certainly something to be said for that much time off. Did she do all the right things, keep her weight down? It can be beneficial because you’ve been preparing for this opponent for this long.

We’ll see. We’ll see if her sparring has been correct for all the time off. Have you been getting those hard rounds in where you’re getting that timing down? Sometimes that is needed.

Kyte: Is that just a timing thing, a rhythm thing where you lose a little of that sharpness when you’re not in those live moments, so you need a couple scraps in the gym to build that back?

Barraco: Yeah, you have to get your timing, get your ability to relax in those moments, remember what it feels like, control the adrenaline. Timing is a huge thing — being able to time the offense and the defense — when you’re throwing that hard and they’re throwing that hard.

Kyte: Is there a way to simulate that? For people that have never been in the gym, never been around these athletes, how close would you say you need to be getting? Is it 70 percent, 80 percent?

Barraco: Yeah, usually in the 75 percent range. Most of them aren’t sparring with boxing gloves, but the big difference is when you hurt somebody in the gym, you’re not looking to finish.

You land a liver shot or you rock them hard and you know it, you’re checking on them, and then maybe you tone it down for a bit. We have guys in the gym that just bang all the time — typically the younger generation — but we say all the time, “You can’t win practice! Nobody is getting paid for this and you can’t win this; the goal is to get better, learn, and be a good teammate.”

Kyte: If there is a curiosity point for you as a coach, as an observer that you’re looking out for, what would it be?

Barraco: Oh yeah!

Barraco: 100 percent. Age makes a difference; we see it time and time again where they’re fine, they’re fine, they’re fine, and then all of a sudden they don’t look great.

She’s gotten back to it, but is this the fight where we see a little erosion again?

Barraco: She’s been doing this a long time, too.

Kyte: It’s gonna be interesting; I’m really looking forward to this one.

Barraco: For sure!