
“It was good because it developed a really high expectation of what my work ethic should be, but I think I was scratching the surface on everything. If you’re focused on too much, you’re really not focused on anything.

“I needed a change, and the biggest thing was my body,” began Elder, explaining the reasoning behind moving to the magnetic center of the fight world. “I was talking earlier about living in that ‘hustle culture’ for so long that I just always thought more was better. I lived and died by this hard work mentality of being the hardest working in the room at all times, and a lot of time after training, I’d be going and trying to lift weights or do sprints on the treadmill because I thought hard work was going to be making me better.

“If I trained hard one day, woke up and my back was killing me, it’s not a good idea to even go in and ‘go light’ because it almost never ends up going light. You’re gonna go in there and starting ripping some shots, somebody’s gonna need a partner and you’re like, ‘All right, I’ll go,’ and when I leave, my back is twice as bad as it was before.”

“Legitimately, as stupid as this may be, there have been plenty of days where I’ve had a couple of good, hard days in a row and felt beat up, and I was like, ‘Today’s a yoga day. I’m gonna watch tape, I’m gonna study.’ On days when I’m not training, I have plenty of stuff to do. I can go back and watch every single thing that I’ve been doing, see where I’m messing stuff up, see what I need to be improving.”

“Now I know that when I feel like ‘I need to take today off; I need to do some yoga or some stretching or some breath work or all of the above,’ I’ll go into training the next day with a well thought out plan of what I need to do in order to get better.”

That assessment isn’t one that you commonly hear from aspiring competitors, as most envision themselves as being ready to challenge for championship gold as soon as they get a couple regional wins under their belt.

“Whatever happens happens — I’m leaving that up to God — but I am truly going to put in every ounce of my being, all the work I can to prepare for this. That way I can be confident and comfortable however things shake out.”

“So I’m just truly focused on my progression as a man; to be the greatest version of myself to protect and provide for my loved ones as much as possible.”