Montreal may have been the first Canadian city to host the UFC, but it’s far from the only place in The Great White North that has welcomed the MMA leader to town.

The UFC has made a total of 34 trips to Canada thus far, with Montreal and Toronto sharing top spot in terms of frequency with seven visits apiece, followed by Vancouver with six, Edmonton with three, Calgary, Ottawa, and Winnipeg with two, and one each for Moncton, Quebec City, and Saskatoon.

Over the course of all those ventures north, there have been some outstanding fights that have taken place — some featuring Canadians, others not — and with the Octagon poised to make its first trek into my home and native land next month, it feels like the right time to dive into a collection of the best fights to transpire up here in the latest edition of The 10.

Bienvenue au Canada!

The first main event on Canadian soil was a massive one, carrying massive championship stakes and a little bad blood as well.

This one was wild, and the boos that rained down at the end were deafening.

It was an outstanding fight and an instant indicator of how good MacDonald was, as well as the right call by the referee, despite the opinion of the masses in attendance.

The UFC’s first trip to Toronto was a colossal affair.

The final horn sounded and Hominick fell short, but it was still a Hollywood ending; Rockyrather than Rocky II.

This is one of the forgotten classics from the pre-Rousey, pre-McGregor heyday of the promotion, and definitely worth a watch if you haven’t seen it before.

The first of two Hall of Fame fights on this list, very few people anticipated this one being as memorable and eventful as it was leading into things. In fact, most expected a blowout, dismissing the challenger’s chances long before the two met and stood opposite one another inside the Octagon.

Those folks were wrong; dead wrong.

This was an incredible fight — an instant classic in the truest sense — and a rightful inductee into the Fight Wing of the UFC Hall of Fame.

This is one of those fights where the 30-27 scores are misleading, as they often prompt people to conjure images of one-sided contests, and this was anything but.

Both men landed hellacious blows. Both men were rocked at various points in the fight. Neither was looking to back down, which led to a tremendous series of exchanges where both were swinging with vicious intent, leaving the crowd in Toronto short of breath because of the sheer number of high points and “ooh and aah” moments.

These are the kinds of fights that stick with you in a “where were you when” way, and if you haven’t seen it — or haven’t watched it in a while — you should remedy that soon.

Having been stationed on media row for this one, I can tell you with all assurances that this was an electric contest that had everyone at TD Place Arena in Ottawa losing their minds. These two wonderful lunatics spent the full 15 minutes swinging hammers at one another, both men tucking their chins, planting their feet, and trying to knock the other out with every right and left that was launched.

And it’s wild that neither man was knocked out because when I say they were swinging hammers, I mean they were swinging gigantic, concrete-busting sledgehammers, and connecting at a 50-percent clip and landing nearly a hundred blows each.

If you want to start an argument within your MMA friend group, declare with full confidence that one of these individuals won this fight definitively and then start counting to 10. If you make it to four before someone starts to push back, I’ll be impressed.

This one makes the list based on the tension that percolated between the standout lightweights in the build to this rematch.

Whenever I build lists like this, there is always one inclusion that carries the “one for me” tag — a deserving addition that holds a little more interest or significance to me — and this is that one here.

When the final horn sounded, it was difficult to say who had won: Taveras started well, but slowed in the second half, while Sidey’s arc was the opposite, leaving opinions split. The judges were in the same position, returning a 2-1 verdict in favor of Taveras, bringing the UFC rookies even in their personal series while instantly establishing each of them as entertaining additions to the 135-pound ranks.