
"I travel a lot. I travel all over the world. And then when it comes to fight week, if you know places to eat, places to go, places to get some snacks, it just takes a little bit of a damper off it.

"Mexico wasn't the best place for me going around. They don't speak English. So, that was really far afield. But being in the UK, home crowd, it's good."

“So I'm going to take it back to Scotland vs England, many, many years ago.

“I'm from Stirling, so that's where The Battle Bannockburn happened. So this is the modern-day battle between Scotland and England for myself.

"It's not going to add pressure, but it's something a little bit closer to me than it would be for just a (regular) fight."

"I fought in Mexico, and I was in the lion's den there. People were throwing chips, you name it!

"I came out the other end with a loss, but the energy was great, and I enjoyed the energy.

"Looking back, obviously I did lose, but it was a great experience. And experiences make you a better fighter going forward."

"To be totally honest with you, my life's completely changed – not in the sense that I'm buying crazy cars and stuff like that. Fifty grand doesn't go very far, especially with the UK tax law! But it's changed my family's life, for sure.

"And, going to the shop and not having to think about buying silly things like pants and socks. I'm a simple guy, so I just want to make sure my family's OK, and then I'll be happy for the rest of my life."

"So, regardless of how you feel – you might feel ill, you might feel unmotivated – regardless of that, you can always fight your hardest.

"So, whether you feel rubbish on the day or some things were going wrong – there's silly things that can go wrong throughout fight camp or even in fight week – things like people forgetting things, or you're late, or you're struggling to make weight. All these sorts of things can play a factor.

"But, regardless of how you feel, you go into the Octagon and fight your hardest. What more can you ask for?"

"That gym is insane. It's changed my game, and I'm very, very fortunate to have got the chance to train there.

"I visualized every possible way, and I'll take anything. I'll take a boring three-round decision, but I will also take a knockout as soon as it pops up.

"If you're in the UFC and you're not trying to finish someday, you're in the wrong promotion. So I'm just going to go out there, kill or be killed."