
“Now, I’m finally making my debut close to home, in Azerbaijan, a neighboring republic to Dagestan. I have many friends here, so I’ll feel like I’m fighting at home. I’m truly happy to be making my UFC debut in this place.”

While cancellations are a fact of life in the fight game, the constant start-stop of navigating training camps and not getting to make the walk can be challenging for an athlete, mentally and physically; each pause forcing a reset in terms of preparing both the body and mind to go through the whole process all over again.

“I kept waiting for the next fight date,” began the heavyweight newcomer, who carries a 13-2-1 record into his initial appearance inside the Octagon this weekend. “I asked the UFC, I asked my managers, I brought it up in every conversation, always pushing to get as many fights as possible. But things turned out in a way that my debut kept getting delayed; it’s almost been a year.

“I’m more motivated than ever; I can’t wait for this fight,” he added. “The moment they offered me this opponent, I did everything I could to make sure the matchup stayed intact. For me, it’s a huge opportunity and a massive source of motivation to face such a top-level fighter; one of the best heavyweights in the world.”

“Getting someone from the Top 5 right away is a massive opportunity. I’ll do everything I can to live up to the expectations and prove I deserve this shot. The UFC doesn’t give debutants Top 5 opponents often, so I’m extremely grateful.

“I believe he’s one of the toughest matchups for anyone in the heavyweight division; that’s why I’m preparing for everything — striking, wrestling, grappling, whatever it takes. I’ve been training non-stop for a year, and I’ll be ready for whatever happens in the Octagon.”

“I see myself getting the win by a finish, but I’m not making any bold predictions,” offered the debuting heavyweight when asked how he sees things playing out on Saturday. “I’m ready for anything, even a full three-round war. If it goes all the distance, I’m prepared. I truly believe I’ll dominate every round and win by unanimous decision.