
Over the next three years, Buchecha would compete five more times, amassing a 5-1 record and cementing his standing as an intriguing prospect on the heavyweight landscape; a legitimate world-class specialist in a division where dominant grapplers are a rare breed.

So with a handful of fights already behind him and training with an elite squad at American Top Team, where would the debuting heavyweight and BJJ legend say he ranks in terms of MMA belts at the moment?

“I think I’m gonna leave that for people to (decide) after a couple of fights; I’m not gonna rank myself,” he said with a smile and a laugh, deftly side-stepping the question. “I’m gonna leave that for the people who are gonna be watching, all the media, to do this. You guys will have this job.”

Time will tell where Buchecha stacks up in the heavyweight division, but he’s hopeful to follow in the footsteps of several other standout Brazilian jiu jitsu practitioners that have ventured into the world of MMA and amassed a tremendous amount of success.

For the Brazilian jiu jitsu legend, the transition to mixed martial arts and seeking to follow in the footsteps of the standouts that blazed the trail before him rekindled a fire for training and competing that had all but burnt out towards the end of his grappling career.

“I didn’t have this will to train, this will to compete, with jiu jitsu anymore because I accomplished pretty much everything in my career,” began Buchecha, who has earned first-round stoppages — four by submission — in each of his five career wins. “So I have this will, this desire to train again; to go there and test myself, and that is what I’m doing. I test myself in the gi, I test myself in no-gi, and now I’m testing my jiu jitsu in the cage, in the UFC.

“It’s a new sport: the jiu jitsu is totally different for MMA than for competition. It took me a while to learn, to understand the game, how to perfect my jiu jitsu for MMA because of course we have a lot of different factors — the cage, the punches, the ground; it changes everything.

“It took me a while to adapt, but after I did, after I started realizing, everything started making more sense, I think my jiu jitsu got much better,” he added. “I never had my jiu jitsu so sharp as I have it right now. I still train in jiu jitsu every day, so if I go to competitions, I think I would have my jiu jitsu the best I’ve had my whole career because I’m training so much.”

That’s a scary proposition considering he’s already widely regarded as one of the greatest competitors to ever grace the mats, and should be a concerning thought for the athletes in the UFC heavyweight division.

While not always the most aesthetically pleasing at times, wins are wins, and beating someone with as much experience and success at this level would be a major statement for the debuting Brazilian, not that those things factored into his decision to accept the fight at all.

“I’m excited,” he added. “It’s going to be the biggest challenge of my career so far, but my career was full of challenges the whole time, so it’s gonna be another big one, for sure.”

Just as he’s not assigning himself a belt rank in MMA, Buchecha also isn’t setting any hard and fast targets for himself as he takes this next step forward in his career. Instead, he’s simply enjoying the moment and focused on making the absolute most of it.

“It’s a dream come true, but it’s just the beginning; it’s just the first step. I know there is a lot to go, a lot ahead, and I hope I have a really good and successful career here in the UFC. This is something that I dreamed of for so long, fought for for so long, and it’s finally happening. It took me a while to get here, but finally I made it, and I’m gonna make it count.

“I’m gonna give my best and I’m not gonna count the days, I’m gonna make the days count here.”

And as always, he’s going to represent for his sport.

“After the UFC news, everyone starts supporting me, everybody’s got my back,” offered Buchecha. “That made me really happy because I wasn’t expecting that. It’s one more reason to carry the jiu jitsu flag in the Octagon, in the UFC, and that’s what I’m always gonna do — I’m always gonna bring the jiu jitsu flag with me, represent jiu jitsu.”