The fact that this weekend marks just the third time the UFC has brought an event to Iowa and the first visit in 25 years feels crazy given the massive impact the state had on the promotion at the tail end of the SEG era and first several years under Zuffa.

Given the deep combat sports history in the state, how long Iowans have been waiting for the UFC to come to town, and the tremendous collection of matchups set to take place at Wells Fargo Arena this weekend, don’t be surprised if Saturday turns out to be a raucous affair and the promotion to make far more frequent visits to “The Hawkeye State.”

Let’s dive into what’s on tap this weekend.

Location: Wells Fargo Arena — Des Moines, Iowa

Where to Watch: ESPN2 / ESPN+

Other Main Card Matches:

Prelim Matches:

Business is set to pick up in the bantamweight ranks over the next couple of months, with this bout serving as the first of several critical matchups on tap as we head into the summer. These two currently sit at Nos. 4 and 5, respectively, in the rankings, and are looking to cement their positions in the pecking order, while also aiming to set themselves up for another key assignment later in the year.

This is one of those contests where you could tell me either man wins in any number of fashions and all of them would sound reasonable to me, as their approaches have some obvious overlap and neither stands as a clear-cut favorite. De Ridder has a considerable edge in experience, but Nickal is one of the top prospects in the sport, and is at the stage where exponential growth between appearances is not out of the question.

However this one plays out, it should be fascinating, and informative, too.

If they were competing in another weight class, each of these men would likely be knocking on the door of facing someone with a single number next to their names, if not in the thick of the title chase. But because the bantamweight division is so flush with talent, they’re still working towards the Top 10, and looking to further their individual cases for another step up in competition by adding to their winning streaks here.