
“I might not be the biggest bantamweight in the world, but I'm perfectly fine with that. I think I do well at this weight class.”

“I feel like the stars were aligning in my last fight, where I knew that the purpose of me still being here is to just see how great I can be. That's it,” she said.

“I've already accomplished great things. I've already been a world champion. I'm sure I would love to make that climb back, but I kind of just took all the pressure off and said, it's not about winning, it's not about losing, it's about being my best. And I think the performance really showed the mindset shift.”

“I knew that I had to risk everything, including getting knocked out. I had to get a little bit desperate. I had to be really hungry in that moment.

“We did kind of this interesting little flip roll, but I stayed with it, and I stayed on it, and I got that finish. And it was just, honestly, the most amazing feeling.

“I grew up fighting strikers and being the wrestler and the grappler, and I feel like this is another classic matchup.

“I just think I'm way better today than when I first started fighting,” she said.

“I actually went back and watched all of my old fights, everything that I could find, and this will be my 30th professional fight. So it was a lot of watching myself evolve through the years.

“There's so many different styles and so many different things that I have explored, and tried, and done, and experienced inside this career of mine, and I was thinking, it must be hard to figure out exactly what I'm going to do, because I feel like I can dip into any one of those.

“But I’m just ready to be a savage, and I’m ready to go out there and fight hard.”

“I definitely think there's a route for me back to a title shot,” she insisted.

“I think it's crazy to me that I've been doing this [sport] this long, and I finally feel like I've figured it out. I'm just so much better than I used to be.

“Part of it is mindset, and part of it is my coaches. I lost my coach, Robert Follis. He passed away, and that was really hard for me. I retired and had all these crazy things going on. I left a crazy, toxic relationship, and now things are really in stride for me. So it just makes all the difference.

“I just couldn't see all that before, and I feel like it's a lot more clear for me now, and I know what I'm here to do. I'm not here for a long time, so I'm here for a good time, so I'm going to make it the best.”

“I feel so much more confident about what I could deliver now. So I think it would be great for me to have that and be able to test myself and see if I'm correct in that. So that would be a dream come true.”

“I’ve always had this ‘never quit, never give up’ mindset, and I always go in there with that,” she said.

“I’m gonna give whatever I have, and I'm not gonna quit, and I'm not gonna give up. So I think that it's really hard to take me out of fights. I’m not going to quit. You really have to beat me. And sometimes that's easier said than done.”