
“I was definitely a lot more pleasant,” he laughed. “After the (Vitor) Petrino fight, I had a lot of things that I knew I needed to fix. It was a fight which I knew I could have easily won.”

He didn’t win that one with the Brazilian, getting halted in the second round. It broke a four-fight winning streak that included two straight in his return to the Octagon, and the perpetually positive Lithuanian had to regroup.

“There's a lot of inner demons that I needed to fix, which is why I went to a bit of a dark place, but I had to figure all that stuff out,” Bukauskas said. “It was a journey and part of my growing process.”

The main lesson? Keep doing what he started doing in that training camp.

“I started doing everything right,” Bukauskas said. “I started not drinking. I started taking care of my recovery. I started doing things like a champion would. And I feel like that was another one of the reasons why I won that fight. I went through adversity, but I still managed to weather the storm because had I not done everything, that kick probably would've put me out. The fact that I did do everything and was very focused and made sure I trained properly and trained with a great team I was in a good place. That's what brought me through.”

Yeah, this is a crazy game. Bukauskas agrees, but whether he admits it or not, it’s that unpredictability that adds to the excitement level, especially for those watching. For those with the gloves on, it means that what you may think is going to happen on fight night isn’t necessarily what takes place when the Octagon door closes.

“I've been on both sides of the coin,” he said. “I've been on the side of the coin where you think it's going to go one way and it goes completely the opposite. But I've also went in there thinking that something's going to happen and it actually goes that way. Weirdly enough, the Tyson Pedro fight would be one example of where I visualized and prepared myself for everything to go a certain way and it actually went that way. But in this fight, it's funny because literally the wrench was his kick to my head because everything that I was supposed to do in that fight was going to plan until it didn't go to plan.”

“I just need to prove myself."

