
“What a story it’ll be when you do become two-time world champion. When you sit back and retire in your house, you can think, ‘I did it not once, but twice. You were doubted before, and you did it again.’

"Everyone was doubting Volk, and he came back and did it again. Now he’s the best of all time. It’s a fun place to be, and I’m excited to be here.”

“So, you accept the loss, deal with it, technically and mentally, then you’ll be fine. I feel like when people lose a fight, they kind of let it beat them down and think, ‘I can't now achieve whatever I'm trying to achieve.’

“All the greats that everyone considered great in boxing, or mixed martial arts, has lost a fight, you know? So it is what it is, you’ve gotta crack on, go back to the drawing board, back to learning , back to growing and keep doing that.

“For me, I like for it to sit with me for a little bit, so I know that the feeling, that hate, is in me a little bit. I feel like you have to let it burn and, after that, you feel like, OK, it's burned, now let's learn from it and build from it and go from there.”

“I think, when you compete against a striker, your flow is different, you move different. When you fight a wrestler, it’s a different tactic you have to train towards. So when you fight a striker, it’s more freeing in what you can do and what shots you can use. So, I'm excited for it. He’s got good energy going into the contest, and it’s going to be a good night.”

“It's kind of wild in how he strikes as well, but there's a lot of holes in his game. It reminds me of (my situation) back in the day, when I first got into UFC. You thought you knew it all, but you don’t. Once you start moving up levels, it’s just different, a different level.

“I had time to hone my skills, and I will show that on Saturday night.”

“It’s hard to prepare – a five-round fight is a lot of work, a lot of grind on your body. So is a three-round fight, but the preparation is different.

"I'm excited to go out there and sprint the three (rounds).”