
“Then I get immersed in this situation where it’s like, ‘this is what the life of a full-time fighter is gonna look like.’ (I learned that) I’m gonna have to juggle training with world-class athletes, fighting world-class athletes, figuring out how to take care of myself, how to cook.

“As a fighter, your time is very limited, so you’ve got to find ways to generate different sources of income and stuff like that, but I was like, ‘No, I’m all-in on MMA.’ I pushed all-in and it paid off. I got my opportunities to try to crack the lineup as a broadcaster. I get to do what I love every single day, even the times I gotta stay up super-late because I’m studying fights; I love every second of it.

“This is gonna sound odd, but it’s almost as big a blessing to me as being a competitor, if not more,” he said of getting to work on the broadcast side of things and continuing building that skill set. “I know how I got into the UFC — I’m a good fighter, I’m a world-class fighter — but the broadcasting stuff? I didn’t go to college! I still don’t know how it happened, and that makes me have that much more gratitude for those opportunities because it’s something I was very blessed with, I never take for granted, and something that I love doing; I love it so much.”

Seeing the opportunities on the broadcast side as a bigger blessing than those that have come inside the Octagon doesn’t sound odd at all, in part because his breakdown of the dynamic and how he reached that point is perfect.

What will sound odd to some is the next part.

“That’s the ultimate to me: to get that belt wrapped around your waist. What a feeling that would be, and I would love to experience that feeling, but I feel like my career would be validated if I became a UFC commentator.

“Sometimes you have to — and it doesn’t mean I don’t exhibit humility in life, but sometimes I have to remind myself that I’m a bad m*****f***** and that these guys have to worry about me as well. The biggest thing was remembering who I am, what I’m about, and that I’m a very dangerous guy on any given night, as well.

“It has really unlocked my true potential in training. I’ve been training smarter, training hard, putting my feet to the fire a lot more, and the fact that I used to think this was age and that was my problem is crazy because, at 37 years old, I’m training better than I have before.”

“I do take a lot of pride in competing against guys that have been on The Ultimate Fighter. It’s not like you defend your title like you do as a world champion, but I want to defend my season. I take a lot of pride in coming from The Ultimate Fighter — to me that’s something that is very special — and so any time I get to compete against somebody that has been through that same tournament, I take it very serious.

“I would like to be ‘the toughest of TUF’ and get the best of these guys, especially because there are only so many guys that I can compete against that have won The Ultimate Fighter,” he added. “I want to be able to say — let’s say I don’t win a world title, I can say that I defended my Ultimate Fighter trophy four times over the course of my career and won all four times; and this is me speaking in the sense that I’m gonna win on Saturday night.”

“And as weird as it is, us fighters, the people we have the most admiration and respect for are the people that we wanna fight, so I’m excited to go out there and compete against a guy like Court. Win, lose, or draw, I think a relationship will be forged when that 15 minutes or less are done, but I’ve gotta go out there, beat him, and put that stuff aside for those 15 minutes or less.”

“It’s a blessing, and something I will never take for granted.”