On Saturday, February 8, the UFC returns to Qudos Bank Arena in Sydney, Australia for the second pay-per-view event of the year.

Headlined by a pair of outstanding championship matchups, UFC 312 marks the promotion’s seventh trip to the New South Wales metropolis and the 19th time the Octagon has made the trip down under.

Generally speaking, no one tends to look to the heavyweight division for ultra-competitive, captivating five-round fights.

Highlight reel knockouts? Absolutely, and both Hunt and Silva had delivered their fair share of those over the years, so when they paired off in Brisbane at the start of December, that’s how just about everyone saw the fight ending: with one man standing triumphant over the other in the center of the Octagon.

Instead, the two perennial contenders smashed one another with massive shots and never stopped battling until the final horn sounded, resulting in the extremely rare heavyweight main event that ended in a majority draw. One judge scored the fight for Hunt, three rounds to two, while the other two had the bout even, with Silva winning three rounds, but Hunt garnering a 10-8 score in the final stanza.

UFC CEO Dana White raved about the contest afterwards and awarded the duo Fight of the Night honors, with the two running it back nearly two years later in Melbourne, with Hunt winning by first-round technical knockout.

For seven years and nine months, this event stood as the one and only UFC event where every fight ended in a finish.

The mark was eventually matched on August 6, 2022 when all 10 fights at UFC Fight Night: Santos vs Hill produced three submissions and seven stoppages.

There have only been a handful of “where were you when…” moments in UFC history and this is one of them.

But that’s exactly what happened.

Every installment of The 10 that gets produced on this site features one entry that falls into the “One for Me” category — a choice that may not make sense or be the most anticipated selection of everyone else, but makes the list because, well, because I’m the one making the list.

There have been a handful of iconic marches to championship gold in the UFC, and Adesanya’s seven-fight, 20-month run stands up there amongst the best.

If any of my friends ever ask me what it is about MMA that I love so much that I’m willing to commit the vast majority of my Saturdays and countless hours each week to it, I’m just going to sit them down, cue up this fight, and walk away.

For me, this was the equivalent of Michael Jordan and Kobe Bryant playing one-on-one in their primes — two masters going move-for-move, attack-and-defend, counter-and-adjust for five rounds — and it was absolutely breathtaking.

This was a wildly entertaining scrap courtesy of two all-action standouts in one of the most competitive and dynamic divisions in the sport, and a fitting close to our collection of must-see moments that took place in Australia.