Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Kyte: All right — what’s the best trait of each of these guys?

Kyte: Neither do I.

The thing you said about the confidence and the aura of the Dagestani guys is 100 percent to me because I think there is something — and we haven’t figured it out yet, and I don’t know that we will; and it’s not just them and their room — but I think there is something to “I never have a more difficult fight than I have rounds in this room, and if I can survive this, there is nothing you’re going to bring to me that I can’t deal with.”

Kyte: How does each of these guys get it done on Saturday night?

Kyte: That’s a great point and that was part of O’Malley’s problem in their fight, and (Sean Madden) and I talked about this a bunch last year in this series that it’s all well and good to be a counter striker, but you can end up in a position where you just kept waiting and it never came, so I think you’re spot on that he’s got to be first a bunch of times.

Kyte: It’s going to be really interesting.

Kyte: If there were one thing that was going to significantly impact how this fight plays out — that swings it in one direction or the other — what would it be?

Kyte: I’m so fascinated by this fight, same with the main event.

Kyte: What’s got your curiosity here?

Chartier: But you’ve got to be opportunistic in those positions. If you are not getting a chance to stand, and you get a chance to spin your elbow and shoulder to the ground and turn into their closed guard, you’ve got to do that.

Kyte: And then start smashing.

How those exchanges — I’m fascinated by the potential grappling exchanges in this fight.

Chartier: Now they’ll probably just bang for 25 minutes.

Now, that’s on paper, and we haven’t seen it, but even that gets me pretty excited.

Chartier: It should be fun.