
“A win is a win, so I’ll take that win, but I wanted to do more.”

For some, stepping into the Octagon and getting to compete is the payoff for the long hours spent in the gym and all that work done in the shadows. It’s the bowl of ice cream you earned as a child after cleaning your plate of all the vegetables sat upon it when it arrived in front of you, and the willingness to eat all those vegetables just doesn’t feel the same when a bowl of ice cream doesn’t follow.

“I like to go out there and just work myself to the point of exhaustion — that’s something I’ve always done — so it’s not something where I need to get myself back into the swing of things. I’m mentally there, always.”

Being mentally dialed in and loving the grimier bits that precede making the walk and standing under the bright lights is a massive piece of what helps make a fighter successful, and can at times counteract other variables that often factor into that equation, including age.

Though he turns 35 towards the end of the month, the typically soft-spoken Texan generally doesn’t think about his age, outside of understanding that he can’t just stroll into the gym and hustle right out onto the mats without stretching anymore.

“The younger guys will turn up 10 minutes before practice, jump on the mat, and go at it. I understand I’m getting up there, so I turn up 30 minutes before, but I’ve done that my whole career; now it’s just more imperative that I do that.”

The Fighting Nerds representative landed on the wrong side of the scorecards in a bout where the Irishman largely worked on the outside and looked to mix in takedowns, staying away from Prates’ power until getting touched and troubled in the late stages of the fight.

So what does he need to do in order to get himself back into those conversations?

“I gotta knock his a** out,” he said flatly. “I gotta get a big finish; that’s the only option. If that’s what I wanna do, then that’s what I need to do.”

“I’m itching to do it. I cannot wait. It’s been a long time.”