
“Being in the UFC, being an exciting prospect, fighting in MSG, bringing UFC to Baku — not saying I single-handedly did it; there are a lot of amazing people behind the scenes — but now I’m fighting on the main card, in my hometown, for the UFC; it’s like these surreal dreams keep smacking me in the face, and it just keeps getting better and better.”

As much as fans will rally behind Canadian or American athletes when they’re representing their countries on a global stage, and local athletes will garner support in their home markets, there isn’t the same unified fervor about backing each and every individual from Canada or the United States whenever they are set to compete the way there is with athletes from so many other nations around the globe.

That’s not necessarily a knock on my fellow Canadians or American supporters either; it’s just a statement of what we’ve historically seen over the years.

I’m not sure the Canadian contingent from the Greater Toronto Area would feel the same way about fighting at Scotiabank Arena or athletes from Denver would say that about competing in their hometown.

But when you’re one of only three fighters representing a nation on the biggest stage in your sport, a homecoming like this and the opportunity to perform in front of family and friends resonates in a completely different way.

“To come from where I come from, to come from such non-MMA popular environments, such negative environments — people don’t make it where I grew up; they just don’t — so for me to get through all of that, end up in the UFC, in Baku, you can picture how much that means to me.

The talented lightweight, who earned his place on the roster with a third-round stoppage win on Season 6 of Dana White’s Contender Series, also has a great deal of pride when it comes to his lengthy unbeaten streak, which began following a loss in his professional debut towards the end of 2018.

“It’s something that crept up out of nowhere, but now I defend it like it’s my turf,” he said with a smile when asked about his extended run of success. “I am now a fighter with an 11-fight unbeaten streak — that’s an impressive record; those are rare in MMA — so I’m looking to keep growing that and see how far it can go. Let it be a 30-fight unbeaten streak and then retire.

“It means a lot. I worked for those results. I dug deep in fights. There have been fights where they’ve been close and I’ve dug deep — 20, 30 seconds left in the third round and I finish the fight; that’s happened a few times. I’ll guard it with my life, and June 21st, we’re gonna reach 12.”

“That’s what I look to do, and I’m not looking at rankings, what’s next,” added the hometown standout. “I just want to take it fight-by-fight, give it my all in every single fight; everything else settles on its own.”