For a lot of fighters, competing in the UFC and being a UFC fighter are two different things, with the distinction often being whether or not they’ve had their hand raised in victory in the center of the Octagon. It’s kind of like how many titleholders don’t fully consider themselves champions until they’ve successfully defended the belt at least once; you really want to prove beyond a shadow of a doubt that you belong, and that you weren’t just passing through.

“It’s something you dream of, and fighting for so long, overcoming everything I’ve overcome in my fighting career — to be able to go out there and get a victory over a guy that’s pretty tough was great.”

Holobaugh is the definition of a journeyman fighter in the traditional sense, not the modern iteration where the word has been turned into a pejorative.

“Making it back getting on the Contender Series, after that second stint, I was kind of like, ‘Well my UFC dream is over, but lemme see what else is out there. Can I compete in Bellator? PFL? Where can I go make some money fighting?’ I kept fighting, took every opportunity my management gave me, and that, of course, led back to The Ultimate Fighter and another stint in the UFC.”

“When I first started fighting, my kids were babies, but now, my youngest is five years old and he’s already looking forward to going to the APEX and watching me fight. My kids are 16, 14, 12, and 5 and now they really know what it all is, too.

“I think that’s the best thing about it, to be honest with you.”

“I think that’s what I would need to do early: I have to do something to knock him off his game early — whether it’s a big punch or defending a couple of takedowns — and try to take advantage and impose my game after that.”

And in terms of more short-term goals, Holobaugh is hopeful that a third straight March start will be followed by another July appearance, and then one more before the year is out.

“This will be my third year in a row fighting in March,” he said with a smile, noting he fought twice in March during his time on TUF. “I feel like these fights are falling on the same timeline every year.

“Hopefully all goes well, and I’ll fight again in July, like I did last year, and if I can catch one before the end of the year, that’s a good year of fighting.”