
“To be able to share the same card and for all of us to be on the same card — and to share it with Santiago, someone that came before us — everybody saluting each other, everybody giving props to each other, it was a beautiful moment. It showed it’s different: we have this bond, this union that is stronger than anything else, and it shows there is even more good stuff coming from Argentina.”

Everything about that day was important and enjoyable for the UFC freshman, who turned 24 on Monday, as in between posing for pictures with his fellow Argentinians and his post-fight feast, Vallejos successfully navigated a difficult matchup with his fellow DWCS grad Silva.

“The lessons? There is really nothing to say: I’m a young athlete, 24 years old,” he added when asked what he’d learned through his first two fights. “I like to evolve in every aspect of the game. This is a sport that is evolving as it is and keeps on changing, so I keep evolving, keep training, and keep getting better in order to have more opportunities to keep evolving, keep getting better in this organization.”

“At the end of the day, I don’t have a rush to get into the title picture; I think of it step-by-step,” continued the 16-1 Argentinian.

He doesn’t want to get too far ahead of himself, whether it be in terms of claiming a place in the rankings or eventually challenging for championship gold, which is something many forecasted he would do after watching his tandem efforts on the Contender Series.

That being said, he does have an ideal scenario in mind for both avenging his lone career defeat and fighting for the featherweight title.

Although it once again won’t rival a proper asado, there will be plenty of opportunities for “El Chino” to enjoy the tastes of home once following this last business trip of the year.

“Unfortunately, the whole family isn’t here, not everybody is here, but I do have a network of people, so enjoy it with the team, enjoy it with those around me, and eating, which is very important as well. I think the most important thing is to be able to celebrate after a win like that.