Next month, the UFC ends an extended absence from La Belle Province, returning to Montreal’s Bell Centre for UFC 315, a star-studded, action-packed pay-per-view event headlined by tandem championship fights.

As we gear up for the Octagon once again being set up at center ice in the home of the Canadiens, let’s look back at some of the most entertaining and pivotal contests that have taken place in Montreal in this edition of The 10.

The very first UFC fight to ever take place in Montreal makes the list, and not just because it was the inaugural UFC bout in the city, the province of Quebec, or Canada as a whole for that matter, which was the case.

Goulet was the aggressor and more successful of the two early, working well on the feet until his Japanese counterpart clipped him late in the first and nearly secured a finish. It was a quintessential Goulet moment — a good start gone bad because of his shaky defensive mechanics — and he got touched up in the opening minute of the second round as well, a left hook causing him to momentarily sit down in place in the center of the Octagon.

But Hironaka got too confident and comfortable with his hands low, and Goulet capitalized, driving home a right hand that dropped him before chasing him down and securing the finish with a short left and straight right to the chin.

St-Pierre was all business from the second he pushed through the curtain and made the walk to the Octagon. There was no basking in the massive pop, no playing to the partisan crowd — just a determined march into the cage, where he then set about correcting the mistakes he made in Houston and restoring order to the welterweight ranks.

While these lists are often filled with championship contests and memorable battles, there are instances like there where it’s simply a fun, entertaining clash between a pair of durable, game lightweights that go toe-to-toe on an April night in Montreal.

In order to understand why this one makes the list, you have to know how we got here.

Landing straight into mount, Rua landed three more blows and put his compatriot out, seizing the light heavyweight title.

Let me just start by saying it’s outstanding that these two men continue to compete in the UFC to this day, and are still having success. Hats off, fellas.

If any coach wants to try to convince one of their charges to put all kinds of effort and focus into developing their jab, this is the first fight they should put on, and it should run on a loop until that athlete recognize just how devastating and controlling an elite jab can be inside the Octagon.

It took less than 60 seconds for St-Pierre to start busting up Koscheck’s right eye; you can see the challenger react to the first clean shot that lands about 45 seconds into the fight, pawing at his eye. St-Pierre likely saw it too, because for the remainder of the fight, he just kept going to work on it, sticking the American Kickboxing Academy representative over and over and over again.

Sure, he mixed in takedowns, a Superman punch here and there, as well as some kicks, but this was death by a thousand cuts, and the vast majority of those cuts were precision lefts to the right eye.

This was an absolute clinic by one of the all-time greats, and while some may quibble with St-Pierre not pressing to do more when it was clear he was way out ahead and had Koscheck in rough shape, it honestly felt like the champion wanted to make a statement and show the rest of the division that he’d developed another tremendous weapon that they all were going to have to contend with going forward.

We talk all the time about how scorecards don’t always present an accurate picture of how tense and close a fight actually was, and this is one of those instances, because while two judges awarded St-Pierre a clean sweep of the scorecards, this was anything but an easy fight for the returning French-Canadian icon.

The best fight from the last time the UFC ventured to Montreal wraps this collection.

All three judges scored the fight in favor of Laprise, but all three scorecards were different, illustrating just how close and competitive this one was.

Hopefully we get a couple of these next month when the Octagon finally makes its return to Montreal.