
“My mind wasn’t really on the fight, and on fight week, I was focused on home. The way my mind works with my OCD and my anxiety, I think about what’s going on at home, where most people would think about what’s going on with the fight. You’ve seen fighters before where they say, ‘The family doesn’t matter right now; it’s the fight,’ but, for me, it’s the other way around. I’m always thinking about my family, what’s going on at home.

“The fight for me? That’s easy; that’s what I do for fun.”

The entire situation was an avalanche of triggers for the British veteran, who has been candid about his struggles with obsessive-compulsive disorder (OCD) and anxiety, and how the two intertwine to bring about periods where he can’t escape the catastrophic thoughts racing through his mind, regardless of how unrealistic they may sound.

Thankfully, his daughter’s health is much better as he readies for his clash with “The Last Pirate,” giving him one less thing to worry over and fixate on as he readies to make the walk on Saturday.

“Health-wise, we’ve got a few appointments coming up to see how the hole in her heart is doing, but I think the operation won’t be for a couple more years; I think they want her to grow up and get as big as possible. So yeah, she’s very happy and melting my heart every day.

“I feel like when I fight, I’m fighting for 20,000 people.”

"Right this moment, going into fight week, I feel bulletproof,” he said when asked about his frame of mind and focus. “I think come Saturday night, everyone is going to see the work I’ve put in during fight camp.”

As much as he’s ready to slug it out with Charriere if need be this weekend, the technical Brit knows that in order to secure the opportunities that he covets, getting into a coin-flip with “The Last Pirate” and eking one out isn’t going to get him to where he wants to be.

From there, a quick turnaround would be ideal, so the proud father of one can get one more in before becoming an even more busy father of two later this year.

“I’m looking forward to the whole process; everything about it. It’s gonna be special."