
The 27-year-old Brazilian is not a small man; he stands six-foot-three and appeared as if he were chiseled out of marble when he stepped on the scale and competed in the light heavyweight division.

Training and competing are difficult enough to get through unscathed, but when you’re also taxing your body as often as he was during his first two years on the roster to make a weight that is increasingly challenging to make, it’s understandable that your body will start to push back and say, “No mas.”

Long gone are the days when competitors would spend eight, 10, 12 fights on the regional circuit, working out the kinks in their games, developing a true sense of who they are inside the cage and, if necessary, which division they are best suited to compete in. Everything has been expedited, with more athletes reaching the highest levels of the sport with limited experience, still early in their development as fighters and needing time to not only grow into their abilities, but in many instances, their more mature, adult forms.

As such, there is a case to be made that fighters reaching the UFC on that accelerated timeline need to be afforded more time to grow, more opportunity to stumble, fall, and learn to pick themselves back up and make adjustments than their more experienced, more established contemporaries; that we need to look at their early years in the Octagon as the equivalent of a football player logging live reps in college before transitioning to the NFL.

“What I learned most in the first two years on the roster being very active was to respect my body more and know when to slow down,” offered the new heavyweight, clearly having taken in a lesson that can only be gleaned from experience. “This sport excites us, but there are times when the body needs rest.

That sense of understanding is another part of the growth and development that only comes with experience, and can only be obtained by making that walk and grappling with the magnitude of competing for the biggest organization in the world. Getting to that point is one of the things that helps unlock the best version of themselves.

“You understand that and no one can stop you.”

“I see the fight unfolding on the feet — two opponents who are strikers — but at some point, when there are more weapons in MMA, the fight will be decided. I am confident in my game.”

That’s the kind of response that only comes once you’ve looked too far in the future once or twice and been shown the error of your ways.