
“Because every time a fighter loses and they say something, like ‘Oh, that happened. This happened.’ They always come up with some s**t.

“But, in reality, I was feeling great in the first round. I really felt untouchable. And, three seconds before the first round ended, I threw a flying knee, and I partially landed it, and he kind of wobbled.

“When he stood up, he threw a push kick to kind of get away from me, and that landed on my neck. One of my herniations in the neck came out and paralyzed the whole right hand.

“So, until I had the surgery, I didn't have my right hand back. I couldn't hold the phone. It was really weird. But yeah, I fought with that for the second and third round. So I think, for me, it proved that I can fight anyone with one hand – it doesn’t matter if you are in the top five.

“So, I learned a lot from this fight. Hopefully it doesn't happen like that in the future in my career, but it’s good experience.”

“It excited me more, but, as I said before, a long time ago, I do think that people turn into wrestlers and grapplers when I fight. So, we’ll see what happens.

“I tried to bring UFC to Georgia, and I worked my ass off on that. I showed the stadium there. We had the meeting with the Prime Minister group, Mayor group, Sport Minister group, and we've been trying hard on that, and especially after the moment that we have a couple of champions and such top-ranked fighters, I feel like we deserve that chance, as well.

“But I know that there are some situations, politically, maybe that will be impossible to do it right now, but hopefully whatever blessing Azerbaijan and Baku got, (Georgia) will have the same thing soon.

“Congrats Azerbaijan, congrats Baku for that. That's a big achievement. Besides being a fighter, I understand how great it could be for tourism, the economy, for sports, for marketing of the country. A lot of people are gonna hear about it, and that's why I want to bring the UFC to Georgia one day.”

“I feel like, after a great performance, something big is going to come in my career.

“The only reason I’m here is to become a champion. I’m not here for money. I’m not here for fame. I promised my kids I’d bring a belt home one day, to my family, my country, Georgia, and they’re expecting that, so I have a responsibility for that.

“That's the only reason why I'm here, and I hope this fight’s gonna (give me) credit for my future career to (help me) on the way to the belt.”