
“I'm a chronic procrastinator,’ he laughs. “It's probably one of my worst attributes that I have. So it's kind of along those lines where I'm like, man, I just did the impossible. That means anything under that s**t, that's f**king cake. But luckily, I got some good people in my corner, and my coaches, keep up on me and make sure everything's going good. So they've got me on a good track for this camp.”

The trio, under the tutelage of Clay Matza, have come together since their departure from the Factory X gym, and they’re all starting to see the fruits of their labor. That’s been especially true since Gurule earned his place on the UFC roster.

“It's just made everything more intense because my mindset's always been that the goal isn't just to get to the UFC, it's to get to the UFC and thrive and succeed and eventually get that belt on my waist,” he said. “So, if anything, there's been more pressure, more intensity, more focus on this camp than I've ever had. And constantly having that intention every day has made me a hundred percent better coming into this fight. And this feels like a full cumulative effort for our new team. This is our first fight camps with everybody together in unison.”

You can’t help but think that with the difference between his eight days of prep for Piccininni and his full camp for Osbourne that we’re on track to seeing the version of the 31-year-old we saw on the regional scene, where he built a 9-0 record with six finishes. It was there that the former Fury FC champion made his bones and began waiting for that call from the UFC.

“Hell yeah, I finished the pizza,” Gurule laughs. “I love that pizza. I was like, you know what? This will be my last good thing. And then I was sick, too. I could barely talk. My wife's like, ‘You're going to make weight? You can't even talk. And I was like, ‘Don't worry about it, I’ll be fine.”

He was. Now he’s a UFC fighter, and though some might think that he’s being thrown into the deep end of the pool against Osbourne, our pizza loving misfit isn’t blinking.