The opening third of the year is behind us (I know, right?) and over the first four months of 2025, the UFC has set things up like a great blockbuster.

We eased into the year with two events in January, before February and March brought a combined nine events where the excitement was ratcheted up, only for things to cool a little this past month, with three events spread out over the four Saturdays in April. As we stand on the precipice of May, we know a great deal about the ensemble that is going to be present throughout this three-act story, and we’ve had an inciting incident or two, but we all know the high points still await us in the future, along with some twists and turns, and perhaps an unexpected cameo or two in store for Acts II and III.

With the second act about to get underway this coming weekend in Des Moines, let’s take a minute to reflect on the standout performances from the final month of Act I inside the Octagon.

And the winners are…

At this point, I don’t understand how you can’t be at least a little curious to see just how far “Paddy the Baddy” can take things in the lightweight division, because I am itching to see what comes next.

Championship fights always have an advantage in these types of situations because the stakes are greater and we’re often talking about two of the absolute best fighters in a given weight class.

The battle for the vacant featherweight title earns top honors this month not just because it was a compelling and competitive battle where both Volkanovski and Lopes had positive moments, but also because it feels like a fight that conveyed so many lessons and provided so many takeaways that awarding the prize to anything else would be a disservice to what this bout delivered.

But that interplay is the second part of what made this such a terrific fight, because this was a wily former champion knowing how to conduct himself when the lights are brightest getting out ahead of a first-time title fight participant that looked just a little hesitant and taken aback by the moment when things first got underway. We talk all the time in sports about how teams or individual athletes usually have to come up short a time or two before they finally take that final step and become a champion, and it feels like this was that moment for the gifted Brazilian.

And lastly, it cranked up both interest in how things get mapped out within the division in the next 12-18 months, but also forces us to think long and hard about who sits atop the mountain as the greatest featherweight champion in UFC history.

It’s not something we’re going to argue or dissect here, but it certainly became a more interesting conversation to have after this one.