
“Sometimes I'm hanging around, doing interviews, then a young guy says, 'Man, I'm your fan. I used to watch you fight as a kid.' And I think, 'Wow, I'm getting old, huh?'

“It's really funny. But that's part of the journey. It's not the first time I’m facingsomeone who was just starting when I was already a champion. That's part of the job.”

“I train hard for this. I love doing this and being in the UFC. It's always been my dream to be UFC champion and fight here. I’m talking way back, when I was starting out, I dreamed of being part of the UFC roster, and achieving all I've achieved.

“I’m very happy with my journey and everything I strived for. Now I'm facing this new guy. I'm already at a certain age, and I'll face someone who's just started. And, believe it or not, we're pretty much the same age.

“I don't see much difference, but the excitement I have inside me and my desire to become a champion are much greater than anything else. So, I'm happy about it.

“I’ll always be very happy here, doing everything we have to do before the fight, and then fighting. I know the fans will go wild and cheer, and that's what motivates me and makes me happy. I get in there and always give my best.”

“I can't go in there, after everything I've done, and freeze up in the fight. The guy had nothing for me. No disrespect to my opponent, but I can't do that. This is not what the UFC and the fans expect from me.

“It doesn't matter if I win or lose, I have to get in there and fight. I have to give it my all, like I always did. And I've always done it very well. So, I was very sad about that.

“For this fight, I tried to change my mindset and not care about any opponent anymore … I just want to do my best. I don't pick my opponents. I get paid for this. I just have to fight. It doesn't matter if my opponent has a lot of hype or no hype. I must get in there and fight.”

“With everything that I've got, why should I worry about my opponent, after everything I went through and after facing so many opponents?

“I put that aside, leaving that for Dedé [Pederneiras, his head coach at Nova Uniaogym], the coaches, and the rest of the team. They analyze what he does best. I have to go in there and do as I train at the gym – that is, kick some ass.”

“My skills are improving. My speed, explosiveness, and all that. I believe my experience has shaped me throughout life. I have good nutrition. I feed my body with good fuel, so I can perform even better. This has made a huge difference inthis moment of my career.

“Athletes my age are usually decaying. They get fatter, move up and down weight classes, put on boring fights. I’m not here for that.

“I want to be a champion. I can do this. I have a healthy body and good conditioning. Thank God, now I have financial stability and I can buy better food to eat healthy and keep growing. That's what I can do now, what I wanted to do. That's what makes me the guy I am today.

“You've never seen me fat and out of shape. I've always been in shape and training hard. That's what I love and choose to do. I give it my body and soul.

“In the future, when I retire, I know I won't miss all this. I'll miss the people I love, like everyone here. I'll miss the UFC team, Dana, and everyone in general. But I won't miss fighting, because since I started out at 16, since my very first fights, I've always given it my all, body and soul.

“I’m very happy about my journey. But I think this is a major change I made. I eat very healthy. It's like fueling a jet. I’m flying high now.“