
"But I get really excited, almost stupid nervous, at new experiences, almost like the excitement is more than nerves. I'm fully aware that Azerbaijan is very, very good for judo and very, very good for wrestling. Personally, my style of martial arts is my MMA grappling, my MMA jiu-jitsu – not so much submissions, I'm all about pinning and cooking them, and then punching them in the face. So I'm hoping that, as a female fighter, I'm able to put on that entertaining performance, in my own classic way."

"So I don't think quite the experience of being in the Octagon has helped my confidence, but I would say it's like a steppingstone into what I'm experiencing here. The culture of the sport is clear, and everyone is surrounding me at points and asking for my autograph. That stuff's weird! I'm not used to it. It's completely different!"

"It doesn't matter who it is or the sort of disadvantage or advantage I'm going to have, I will always say yes, because I'm in the fight game and I'm in the biggest organization. If I say no, then why am I here?

"I'm nervous and excited. I don't want to ever anticipate the fight, and I never want to predict where it's going to go. Obviously, I'd like to know in my head that I'm going to win, and I like to think that I'm going to win. But if I don't, I'll be disappointed.

"But I don't want to predict I'm gonna win and put bad omens out there. I'm not a crystals kind of person. I just want to make sure I'm going in there fully open-minded that I need to try my best in every single scenario."

"All of my blood level markers are all coming back perfect. The only thing that says is that I'm overtraining, which is very common for me. I just like sport, I like training, I like doing the gym. I like what I do. No one can quite understand why (the menstrual cycle) is an issue with me.

"I know when I'm at a higher weight in terms of walking around normally, my cycle is on when I'm full of food. But when I start getting into camp and cutting weight, I lose my cycle.

"So yeah, I'm happy to get a new contract, and making weight on Friday, I'm gonna have the biggest smile on the scale, because I've just worked so hard with my coach, Paul Reed. My manager has just hooked me up perfectly with this guy. So, yeah, I'm happy."