
One of the most competitive and gritty championship battles in recent memory, the back-and-forth scrap was immediately recognized as an instant classic and will now take its place alongside other historic contests in UFC history.

“It’s hard to get recognized for a fight, let alone get inducted into the Hall of Fame, so I’m pretty proud of it, but, at the same time, I didn’t win that fight. I don’t have gold around my waist; I’m still searching for it.”

“Finally, I’m at a place where I took some time, I healed my body, I feel good,” he said of going all-in on competing at middleweight. “I put on some muscle, I put some beef on me, and I feel strong, I feel healthy; haven’t felt like this in a few years.

“I just feel like my old self again. I feel good, I feel healthy, I feel bouncy in my steps again, so I feel like I’m gonna go out and put on a good performance for everyone. I worked really hard to be able to do something like that, to be able to do something special on Saturday.”

That work includes spending the last month in Mexico City, a place where he had success earlier in his career, but under very different circumstances.

“They made the experience a whole lot better,” Gastelum said, laughing, when asked about the differences between this extended stay in Saturday’s host city and his previous trips to the Mexican capital in 2014 and 2015. “Rather than lifting rocks and throwing watermelons, they’ve made the whole experience better having the (UFC Performance Institute) out here. This is a Disneyland for athletes, so we had a lot of fun out here rather than trying to figure things out.

“It’s been a while since I’ve been to Mexico City. I owe my people out here a good fight, and finally we got one matched up for them this Saturday. I made sure I left no stone unturned for this fight.”

If that means having to get through a dangerous opponent like Pyfer in order to start working his way back up the divisional ladder, so be it.

And for those that view this weekend’s contest as a chance for the dangerous DWCS grad to take a big step forward by turning aside an established name, the former interim title challenger and impending Hall of Fame inductee is looking forward to dispelling those notions in front of a partisan crowd on Saturday night.

“I think this is a fight where it’s a ‘Y’all musta forgot’ moment, and I’m gonna have to remind them who the hell I am,” he said with a smirk. “I’ve put in a lot of work, so I’m ready to get my hand raised.”