
“My dream, my plan, my goal for me being in UFC, is to become a champion – always. The reason for me being here is to be a champion. So this is something that I really, really want, but at this point, I have a good opponent, and I have to do my thing here.”

“This is the best thing, because, you know, when you're healthy, you can perform the best. And there’s been a lack (of fitness) for a couple of fights in my career, last couple of fights, unfortunately. Finally, I can tell you that I'm healthy. I can't wait to show up.”

“I've been living 11 years in Orange County. I'm living in Huntington Beach, but Costa Mesa and Newport Beach, they are so close and attached together. It's like one community.

“I found a great place, and I don't know if I'm gonna stay there or live back in Georgia. So, before I leave, I want to mark my being there with something to leave there for the community.”

"Definitely. You guys are gonna see the best version, because I had some time to take off and recover, and this year, I already competed once. Even though I lost, it’s still good compared to not fighting, because when you don’t fight for a long time, then maybe you get a little extra excitement before the fight or something. So now it’s only couple of months after (that fight, and) I'm back again, doing my thing and enjoying the process.”

“And I’ve been doing this all my life, you know? Since I was four or five years old, I've been training in martial arts and competing since I was six years old, so it's definitely something in my blood. So I love doing it. And that's probably the one of the biggest things that makes me happy.

“I step in the Octagon, and when I step out, my hand will be raised, my Georgian flag will be raised and will be happy going there and meeting my people.

“That's how I imagine what's going to happen in the Octagon. I'm going to leave it right there because I have a couple of different ideas. I’m a sniper, and I’m gonna be quietly waiting for the moment to finish the fight right there.”