Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Fair assessment?

Where he’s at his best is in those early moments when he’s pressing and looking to get you out of there before you have a chance to settle in, figure him out at all.

Kyte: And what about for Volk?

Obviously, one of the best pound-for-pound fighters we’ve seen, has all the weapons, has all the elements — this is what I love about this fight, because all the things I want to say that are great about him, he’s also coming off three losses in four fights.

Kyte: Great word, and I would say he’s more heady than most people.

Nicksick: Yeah, so I would say his Fight IQ, but his depth of knowledge when it comes to striking and grappling. I think this guy is elite when it comes to what he can do out of both stances, on the floor.

There really isn’t a hole to his game, except lately, it has been his chin.

But if you’re Volk, how do you use that experience, that headiness to counter a guy like that? Is it as simple as the stuff we talk about like “I know he’s coming guns blazing for the first half of this round, so I’m gonna make sure I’m defensively responsible, keep myself in it, and we’re gonna make this about two through five;” is that all it is?

Nicksick: A hundred percent. I think that’s his game plan. You want to make him expend as much energy as you can in the first two-and-a-half rounds, and then, “Okay, this is where the big boys step up. I’m gonna make you wrestle, grapple, chase me down.”

Kyte: Deal with these low kicks. Deal with me bashing your body. Deal with these stance switches.

Nicksick: Exactly. Take as much energy as you can from him, and then the real clinic begins halfway through Round 2, start of Round 3.

Kyte: Right. He’s not forcing stuff.

Nicksick: He’s not greedy.

Kyte: He’s as content as can be to beat you on the scorecards, running away from you, in terms of the score, not the action.

Nicksick: I think his best path to victory is to try to get on him as fast as possible, and play with that a little — that uncertainty of whether his chin is still there or not.

Kyte: He’s gotta be questioning it, right?

Get him up against the barrier and look to attack.

Kyte: What, if anything, is the X-factor in this fight?

This feels like a fight that can go so many different ways because there are so many weird little variables we don’t understand and we won’t understand until we see what happens.

Kyte: You’re on fire tonight with the language; dropping heady and now chaos and order.

Nicksick: That’s such a great point.

Kyte: No; my lean is 100 percent Volk.

Nicksick: Me too.

You can’t do those things.

Late in the game, if you can avoid the submissions just by playing guard or half-guard, you can negate it. The other thing too is that if I’ve canned two rounds out of three and I know I can go in there, dominate you in the wrestling, and I know you like to play off your back, I might go out there in four and five and wrestle, knowing that you have to get a finish.

Nicksick: He’s happy being on his back.

Nicksick: And then some well-timed takedowns too where, “I’ve got 90 seconds left and for you to find a submission on me in 90 seconds is damn-near impossible, so I’m gonna seal these rounds up, put some ground-and-pound on you, inflict some damage.”

Kyte: Okay, so what’s the one curiosity point here for you?

Kyte: I couldn’t agree more.

Nicksick: I’m with you. I’m with you.

Nicksick: Yeah, the momentum swings to your side early, you got the band playing, and the confidence is huge.

And you’re right — I think what he carries into this fight more than anything is the unwavering confidence, which he has every right to feel that way.

Kyte: 100 percent! There has been nothing in two years that has made him question himself. Now can he go in there, have a good first two minutes that elevates him, drops Volk a little, and it just becomes a tidal wave, an avalanche.

It’s so interesting.

Nicksick: Yeah, man. It’s a fascinating fight.