
Plus, there’s the little matter of how the fight ended up, too.

Always good-natured, the Yuma, Arizona, native smiled when mentioning the result, which is surely one of those things that is, as he said, both a cherished and painful memory, given that it remains one of the greatest fights in UFC history, but also a constant reminder that he came up short.

“It’s unfortunate that I haven’t been able to display how much better I’ve gotten over the years (lately), but I’ll take the highs with the lows and the lows with the highs. I just go along with what God has blessed me with, and I continue to put one foot in front of the other, fighting forward. I still have some objectives, some stuff to do in this sport, and I’m not going away yet.

“I still think I can accomplish some pretty cool stuff,” Gastelum added when asked to expand on his objectives and ambitions. “I want to get the ball rolling in this division, get some wins stacked up, and see where it goes from there. I can still compete at a high level, and I plan to show that this weekend. It’s unfortunate that I haven’t been able to show the evolution in the last few fights, but I feel like this time will be different.”

“I’ve been in a few fights where my mindset is right, and I’ve been in a few fights where my mindset isn’t all there and I’m not able to execute the way that I want to execute. I think just finding that right mental space has been the difference. Right now, we’re in a great place; I’m happy with where we’re at, and I’m excited to compete and hopefully display some clear skills on Saturday.”

He’s also excited to compete at Noche UFC for the first time, as well.

“It means a lot,” began Gastelum when asked about taking part in the UFC’s third such event. “I’m really thankful and really happy the UFC puts on these kinds of events because of the rich history of Mexican fighters in boxing and now we’re seeing it transition into MMA. At one point, the UFC had three Mexican champions, so the sport is definitely growing in Mexico and Latin America, so it’s cool that they’re putting on events like this to celebrate the culture that the Mexicans have always brought in combat sports.

“Just believing in my purpose and having faith in myself, in the unknown,” he said, explaining his process for leaving everything that is behind him there when he makes the walk this weekend. “Just going out there to execute is my mindset. Forgetting the past is difficult, but I know what I need to do and I need to execute; that’s it.”

And what does he expect from himself should that come to pass this weekend?

“Oh man,” he said, his ever-present smile growing wider, “it’s gonna look like Vintage KG. I’m excited.”