Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Madden: First things first — we gotta give both of these guys their flowers; I love them both so much.

Both of them are the essence of what a fighter is; they should be studied and looked up to for many years to come by up-and-coming fighters — for their technical ability, of course, but man, just the heart and what these guys represent in the cage. They are both “fighter’s fighters” and everything they’ve been through in their careers is f****** incredible.

I really respect these guys and I tip my cap to both of them and look up to them a ton.

Kyte: 61 combined UFC appearances, fought each other twice already, and have fought amongst the strongest, toughest “strength of schedule” slates of anyone in UFC history.

Madden: It’s insane! It’s a Murderer’s Row, for years, and still to this day.

Kyte: It’s the toughest dudes on the planet, every time out.

Madden: It’s absolutely insane the things they’ve accomplished in this sport. It’s really what all fighters hope they can be.

If guys had half the career that either of these guys had, they would consider it a massive success, so before anything else, that has to be said about both of these guys. It’s a bummer one of them has to lose on Saturday, so hopefully we just get an amazing five rounds out of these guys.

Kyte: Agreed.

Kyte: When it comes to his defense, what is it about that approach that you like so much for MMA?

Madden: You see guys in MMA still just kind of using high guard a lot, use the shell, and I don’t know how long we have to keep having this conversation, but you’re so hittable when your hands are up and stationary; these punches can still find their way through.

As a striking coach, as someone that teaches this stuff, what is it about that diversity and giving someone all those different things to worry about that is so effective and so important for more people to start adapting and try to implement

Madden: For me, as a coach, this is such a big part of my philosophy, and when you boil down fighting, you need to give the opponent more problems to solve, and you have to be able to solve their set of problems quickly.

We can talk about this in path to victory, but…

Kyte: Well then let’s do it! You’re leading me down that road, so what are the paths?

Madden: I think it’s pretty straightforward.

Madden: Exactly, and it’s true for everyone: the second you get pushed against the fence, things change a little bit and the pressure gets a little tighter, you start making mistakes you wouldn’t otherwise out in space.

Kyte: What are the X-factors here

Kyte: The end of October, so we’ve had some time, but it’s one of those ones where you have towonder, like you’re saying, how it’s going to linger?

Madden: And it’s at such an interesting time of his career, where he’s had so many fights already, the mileage is there. This is really what I’m going to be paying attention to is him coming back off this first KO.

He’s gonna get hit in this fight, 100 percent, and we’ll see what it looks like when that happens.

It’s a different walk when you know it’s your last one.

Kyte: So you’re somebody that has made the walk several times. Going into the last one, did you know it was the last one?

Madden: I didn’t. I had some injuries after, so I never got the luxury of knowing it was the last one.

Kyte: Okay, so we can’t pull on that personal thread, but, in general, we’ve seen a lot of people in this position, where they know it’s the last one, and it usually goes one of two ways: either we go all out, leave every last ounce of yourself in there or the emotion of it and the moment of it gets a little big.

Madden: That’s exactly right.

If I had to guess, I don’t think a lot is going to change, and we’ll see if that’s a good thing or a bad thing.

Kyte: I agree, and mine dovetails with yours because how much of it is telling yourself that it was ’45 and I shouldn’t have went down?

How much of it is telling yourself that versus that you have to also account for being 33 now — and much older in fighting years because he’s been in 40 fights…

Madden: And a bunch of them were wars!

It’s just fascinating to ponder what this is going to look like. There is so much of this fight to pull at here… it’s amazing.

Madden: I agree.

Kyte: This fight is… I just don’t want a sad ending.

Madden: That’s what I’m hoping for, too! If we can get a fight that is similar to the last one in 2019, cool; may the best man win.

Madden: Knowing those two guys, they would want to go to a sixth round!