
Thirty-one-year-old Almabayev has done everything right so far in his UFC career, and the 21-2 contender has won each of his four Octagon appearances to date.

"I feel great about this. Obviously, I was going to be on the card, and now the card has changed and I got all the way to the top.

"This is something for me to show myself, to be able to show a great fight and then eventually get into the title race. So the biggest thing right now is just to come out, show out, win, and then everything else will fall into place. But I feel great. I feel really lucky.

Almabayev knows he's facing the toughest test of his career but, as you'd expect from a fighter heading into a bout on a 17-fight win streak, he's confident that he has what it takes to get the job done and gatecrash the flyweight title picture.

"He's a great opponent," he admitted.

"He's very experienced. He's got good cardio, he's got good striking. He's not better (at) wrestling. But I think that whoever is going to come in there and implement their game plan, who is going to be more mentally prepared, that's the person that's going to win.

"He's had his wins. He's had his ups and downs, losses. I've only been winning so far. I've been very good at that. It just depends on who's going to come out there and be number one, and who's going to say that 'I'm ready for this title.' And I think it's me.

"I need to be here. I deserve to be here. I worked really hard, so I'll show whatever I can and use every second to win."

"It's every fighter's dream to be from around the world and represent their country here in the UFC – the biggest, toughest promotion in the world," he said.

"So I'm very honored to do this. This is something that is important for me. This is a huge opportunity for me to hoist my flag in such a huge company."

But the pride in representing his country also brings immense pressure, too, as he explained.

"For Kazakhstan, and really for all the former Soviet countries, people are such huge fanatics of the sport that, if you win the title, you become a national hero, you become praised, you become loved. But if you lose, that's it. They bury you.

"So, we don't have a choice. We need to win. We have to do this for our country, for ourselves and hoist our flag."

Thanks to his short-notice promotion to the main event spot this weekend, Almabayev has the chance to reach his destination faster than expected. But, while he might not be a household name just yet, he hopes to prove to the world that he's a worthy challenger for the 125-pound title.

"This is a five-by-five – five rounds, five minutes – and I'm ready to show myself," he said.

"What (the fans) should expect is an exciting fight, a fight of two really high-level fighters. Somebody who's been through everything, somebody who's got a lot of experience, who's been to every kind of fight. So I think the fans are expecting a fiery, exciting fight.

"And then, for those that are MMA fighters, they'll probably be able to even see something and learn something from this. But, either way, it's definitely not gonna be boring. It's gonna be a wonderful fight."