Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Kyte: Yeah.

Madden: That’s insane, but we’ll talk about that later because that’s definitely something to discuss in terms of this fight and it could go both ways.

His pace and his conditioning are always going to be the first things we talk about when it comes to his best traits because that’s what separate him from the pack, even in a division as crowded and stacked at 135. He’s still putting himself a mile ahead of these guys with his pace.

Madden: It has to be terrifying for some of these guys, right?

He’s continuing to improve every single fight and he’s not at his full potential yet. He’s getting close, for sure, but he’s not there yet, and that’s really scary to think about given how far he’s separated himself from the division already.

If you’re any of these guys in the conversation around No. 1 contender or up next, you’ve got to be sweatin’ bullets a little bit, thinking, “This guy has some weaknesses, but largely he has a ton of strengths and he continues to improve on those.” It has to be a scary thought, man. Beating him is a tall task.

Madden: A hundred percent — it is an absolute requirement of this job, particularly at that level.

Kyte: For sure, but I would also understand the moments where you look at it and have that doubt, have that real brief pause from the delusion too.

Madden: Yeah! You’ve only got 10 minutes after that first round, and if you look at his last couple fights, let’s be honest: he’s not putting guys away necessarily. He’s winning decisions. It’s not like he’s downloading this information in the first five minutes and then going out there, exploiting it and finishing guys.

Madden: Look at the age of both those guys that he finished. The competition is getting tougher, you’re fighting for the belt against a guy you’ve already fought, a guy that has already done well against some of the other elite strikers in this division.

I would not advise that approach in this rematch, especially because while rematches are always different fights, you did fight this guy for 25 minutes already and on top of that, you have a lot of film that has come out since you fought him last time. We’ll talk about this part later too though.

Kyte: What the path to victory for each guy here?

Kyte: Your striking is always going to look better, have a greater impact when people have to be hyper-aware of getting taken down. It’s those half-seconds we talk about all the time.

Kyte: And what about the challenger?

Kyte: Right.

Kyte: How much are you trying to drill into him that “we’ve gotta go first; we’ve gotta be the one going forward” here?

He’s a terrific counter-striker, but another thing we always talk about is that you can wait and wait for the chance to counter and then two, three minutes are gone and you haven’t landed anything significant. And I you let this dude come forward, that’s the recipe for getting beaten, again.

So how much emphasis are you putting on “we gotta switch it up” and put together all the stuff we’ve been talking about so far?

Madden: That’s absolutely what he needs to do, and to me, it’s the mark of a champion.

Kyte: Okay, so what’s the x-factor here?

Madden: I talked about it briefly at the start, but man, I really love rematches because the fight is gonna be different and it’s an opportunity for both fighters to make adjustments, and I’m such a fan of cerebral fighters, so for fighters to come out and present a new version of themselves in a rematch is always exciting to watch.

Kyte: There’s not a lot of surprises.

Most people at this level of the sport would say that an 8-week camp for a 5-round fight is not a lot of time.

Madden: You’re not even getting a weekend off following your last title fight, not that he wants the weekend off, but you’re not getting it either way. You’re back to work, every session counts, and again, this is the x-factor for a reason because it can work for him or against him.

It has worked for him thus far, but there is gonna be a point of diminishing returns. We’re at the end of a calendar year where he’s already fought 13 rounds and that’s a lot of cage time, man. Yes, you’re winning these fights dominantly, but they’re still fights, you’re still getting hit, you’re still taking damage, and you’re preparing on top of that too.

Kyte: Even if he’s just dealing with the usual wear-and-tear it’s all adding up, right?

Madden: How about mental fatigue?

Kyte: So the benefit of staying active as he has is that you don’t need a big 12-week, “get back into shape” camp because you’re already in shape, but there has to be just general fatigue of every kind that sets in because of all those miles, all those rounds.

He fought all eight rounds he was booked for last year too, so 21 rounds and change in two years.

Madden: Those are insane numbers.

We also have to acknowledge that he’s mid-30s — 34, right?

Kyte: Yep, 35 in January.

Madden: Durability doesn’t last forever. Do I think he’s close to that? No, not necessarily, but when you’re fighting four title fights a year, you’re starting to push those limits a little bit.

We’ll see, but it’s something we have to pay attention to in this fight for sure.

Madden: No, I think that’s all it comes down to, and if something presents itself in the fight — you land a knee to the body and it shows there is something there or you’re touching that calf and he’s reacting to it more than normal, okay, but other than that, you’ve just got to to step on that gas and see what comes out of this.

Kyte: What’s are the curiosity points for you in this one?

Kyte: Get the hands mid-body instead of right up around your head the whole time.

Madden: Absolutely — finding a middle ground where you can defend punches but still dig some underhooks is gonna be important for him.

Kyte: That’s the evolution of the one Tyson (Chartier) and I had for his last fight, coming off the submission where we wondered, “Does he start chasing more now that he’s got a taste of finishing someone?

Does he get out of character a little? Does he start to get away from what got him to where he is?

I think Sandhagen made him stick to the script more by having a good round straight after getting hurt that makes him reset, get back to what he normally does.

Kyte: But does even hurting him make you start changing it up a little, looking for stuff a little more?

Kyte: All of that, combined with this being a rematch is what I am so fascinated by when it comes to this fight. These two don’t like each other either and he’s been thinking about this one since before the fight with Sandhagen.

Madden: A hundred percent.

Kyte: And he’s at the point in his career and his trajectory where if there is going to be a “FAFO moment,” it’s this one, because he’s trying to do some historic s***. No one has ever successfully defended their belt four times in a year.

But this quiet Russian dude has one goal in mind.

Madden: To ruin everything you’ve worked for!

Kyte: And he’s said — and it’s the other curiosity point for me — that he was dealing with injuries in the first fight and a rematch would be very different. Okay, here’s your shot, so show me how different it can be.

He’s someone that if he was severely compromised, it could be different, but here’s your chance. Sean O’Malley told us that it would be different when he was healthy and the only thing different about it was that he got beaten even worse the second time around.

Madden: Right, and you can only use it this one time, so make it different.

Kyte: Yep. Time to show it. I can’t wait for this one. I’m so pumped.

Madden: Same, man. Same.