
“I just don't let anything, whether it's a horrible performance and a win, or if it's a loss, I don't let anything deter me... I just went back to training, because I love to do it. And then I booked a fight, and here I am, looking to get a victory here on Saturday.”

“I'm just glad, obviously, to be back quicker than I was last time, so it doesn't feel foreign or anything like that.”

“I’ve wrestled since I was three years old. I've had so many losses because I've just been competing in it for so long... For me, there’s losses on the mat and losses outside of the mat, like in life. I had cancer, but then I won, because I beat it! And other setbacks – I had a neck injury when I was wrestling and I had to take some time off. And then I ended up fighting MMA, and I’ve had a lot of injuries throughout my career... But, for me, I always keep a positive mindset, and I always just keep going forward.”

“That changed a lot of things. I’ve never publicly said anything, like, ‘Oh, here's why I lost.’ But it definitely changed a lot of things, and definitely changed the way I fought... If you watch any of my fights, I don't just go out there and shoot sporadically.  I felt like I just got a little nervous because I had hurt my knee, and I didn't know what was going on. So I didn't fight like myself... I ended up making mistakes throughout the fight, and it cost me the fight. But it's OK, because now I've learned from it, and I'm banking that. My brain learned it's not going to do that again.”

“So I can't say that Weili is better than me – I don't believe that. I think that I just didn't show my true self out there. Some circumstances happened, and then it led to that... But I think had that not happened, it would have turned out a little differently and definitely would have been a lot more entertaining of a fight and more competitive than what showed... So, who knows? We could have had a five-round all-out war, and I would have been happy with that, even if I had lost. But, at the same time, I'm like, ‘OK, I know that wasn't me, and that's what displayed out there.’”

“I train so hard because I want to go in there knowing that I did everything I possibly could to win my fight. And if I come up short, then I come up short. But at least I did everything I could and I know that I wasn’t just being lazy and half-doing it – I was giving it my all.

“So that’s what I always pride myself in – always giving everything that I can.”