Championship fights are layered battles with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

He has the mindset of “I’m better than these guys and I’m just gonna handle business.” I think he’s grown into fighting twice a year, being extremely well prepared, and focused on dominating, rather than making it exciting, looking to brawl. I think you’re spot-on with this and it’s a trait that more athletes in general need to adopt.

Kyte: So I’ve talked to him throughout this year, including ahead of this fight, and basically said to him, “This isn’t supposed to be this easy and you’re supposed to be a little nervous or anxious, and it’s understandable if you’re a little overwhelmed,” but he’s just not.

You’re dead right with this. He’s just completely unbothered by it and he’s just really good at locking in on the task and not the narrative pieces of these fights. We’ll see this week because this is bigger than anything he’s dealt with before, but he’s just not taken by this stuff at all.

Kyte: What the path to victory for each guy here?

Play with that gamesmanship a little.

Chartier: You can’t just think about defending takedowns; you have to win the exchanges. I think added to that idea of going forward and getting into your offense, you have to be selective with your weapons too.

It’s gonna be stuff where if you throw it, they’re not shooting underneath it; you’re still catching them.

Kyte: I think both of the title fights are fairly similar in their construction in terms of what the champions want to do, what the challengers are best at, and what they need to do in order to dictate things.

Now we just have to see who can do it.

Kyte: What’s the x-factor in this one for you?

Chartier: I have two things.

You’ve got to have good frames and trying to keep everything in front of you. You’ve gotta resist the urge to turtle, and whatever plan they come up with, you’re repping that out all camp, so that it’s second nature, against guys that are great in that position like Pantoja is.

The other part is situationally, maybe you do ride out a round and take the “L” for that round rather than taking a risk and getting choked out. Better to go into the fifth 2-2 than trying something and getting tapped in the fourth. That’s a game-time decision they’re gonna have to think about.

In a perfect world, all your get-ups involve framing, keeping everything in front of you, not giving up your back. It’ll be interesting to see how he deals with that.

Kyte: What’s are the curiosity points for you in this one?

I’m really interested to see if he’s willing to wrestle out in the open. No one has had success there, so I’m interested in that. And then we also talked about the 5-round thing and the big moments, but I do want to see how that plays out too.

Kyte: I wanna see how Pantoja deals with it being a 24-year-old challenger that hasn’t really been in the mix and wasn’t really on his radar until June.

We talk about it all the time, but it only takes one time where you’re over-confident, too sure of your success, too sure of your abilities that something goes wrong, and I’m always curious about it, especially in fights like this.

Now, he’s had that experience and he’s looked outstanding since then, but it only takes one time for it to happen where it costs you, and at what point does one of these ones catch you?

Chartier: I feel like he’s been improving as a champion; he’s been more locked in.

Kyte: The last two fights he has been absolutely lights out; insanely good.

Chartier: Right.

Kyte: And I think we all have a little recency bias with this stuff, but that’s where we’re at with this conversation, and it’s surely a motivational piece for Pantoja.

Chartier: For sure.

Kyte: It’s gonna be fun.

Chartier: I’m excited for this card.

Kyte: It’s an outstanding card, and this fight is gonna be amazing.

Chartier: Agreed.