The UFC’s annual October pay-per-view event in Abu Dhabi is always highly anticipated, and UFC 321 was no different. Unfortunately, Saturday’s return to Etihad Arena didn’t end the way anyone had hoped, leaving everyone coming away from an otherwise entertaining night of fights feeling a little deflated.

So let’s talk about it.

It's as close to the worst-case scenario as anyone would honestly like to come, and I completely understand and identify with everyone feeling let down and a little annoyed by it all, but… tell me you’re not even more intrigued to see these two dudes back in the Octagon as soon as they can make it happen?

Also – and this is probably just a me thing — but like, do we have to instantly go “the world is ending; everything is terrible” when something like this happens? It sucks, undoubtedly, but everything before it was solid with a sprinkling of awesomeness mixed in for good measure, and we’ve been having a terrific run of fights of late, which must account for something, no?

Quit fixating on the one thing that didn’t go as hoped, believe that it will be awesome once it gets rebooted, and enjoy the good stuff that happens each and every weekend… or don’t… it’s up to you, but like that just feels like a way better option if you’re going to spend your Saturdays watching fights.

We never truly appreciate how difficult it is to succeed at the highest level of the sport with any kind of consistency and minimize what it means to be a Top 10 or Top 15 mainstay for years on end, often fixating on the losses that dot an athletes results rather than the victories; thinking about what they didn’t do or haven’t done instead of celebrating all they have accomplished. We also fail to appreciate just how challenging it has to be to try to live up to everyone’s expectations when they get to see your attempts play out on television.

Because there have been legitimate generational talents that have exceeded expectations in their given fields turn up a handful of times in the last 20-25 years (see: Tiger, LeBron, Serena, Ronaldo, Messi, Simone Biles, Roger/Rafa/Djoker) that we kind of just expect everyone to become everything we expect them to be and when they fall short or take longer than expected, we come away disappointed or judging them differently.

Getting creative would help avoid bottlenecks at the top of the division, where everyone has already fought everyone, and everyone else is left to string together lengthy winning streaks in hopes of getting a date with a Top 5 opponent. Plus, putting a little distance between the best fighters in the division when they’ve already shared the Octagon means we don’t run the risk of a potential rivalry being settled in 12-18 months the way it was with Dvalishvili and Sean O’Malley.

Who’s with me?

The officiating was off the charts on Saturday, and it was good to see so many people giving the referees that expertly handled things at UFC 321 their due on social media.

Props all around for an excellent night, gents.

And with that, I’m out.

See you again after UFC 322.