
“Every time I fight, I take it all in because I know one day, I’m not gonna be able to do it; I’m gonna be old, so I try to take it all in. I just can’t wait for that song to play, to walk out, and think, yes! This is where I’m meant to be, this is where I’ve grinded 11 years to get to, and this isn’t where it stops; this is just the beginning!’ I’m excited for it.”

“But I stuck to the plan, trusted in the process, got there in the end, and I think I’m gonna make a real triumphant run in this game, I really do.”

“Looking back now, it’s not that they’re on this level and I’m down here,” he continued, using his hands to indicate the levels in that hierarchical manner we all know. “They are on this level, but I’m on this level with them.

There is an ease and calm to the talented Englishman that is uncommon amongst fighters his age, in his position: days away from his sophomore appearance inside the Octagon, entering off a loss, in a high-pressure fight on home soil.

For the heavily tattooed lightweight, it all comes down to a popular refrain back home, and the experiences he’s already had in his professional career by following its direction.

“There’s a saying where I’m from, ‘Keep on keeping on,’ and that’s all I’ve done,” began Vucenic. “Trials and tribulations? ‘Keep on keeping on,’ and I’ve kept going.

“I was gonna say in the moment after the fight, ‘Just don’t give up.’ It’s as simple as that. Fought for my first professional title? Lost; I didn’t give up. Got to Cage Warriors, biggest fight in Cage Warriors history, defending my belt? I lost, but I didn’t give up; I just kept going.

“I keep on keeping on. UFC debut? Lost, and I’m just going to keep on keeping on. This has been my whole career, and I keep growing by levels and levels and levels, and this is going to be no different.

“Every time I’ve gotten better and better and better, and that’s what’s gonna happen.”

But with acceptance comes peace, and with peace comes the ability to create incredible moments and show people who you are as an athlete, as a competitor, and as an individual, which is exactly what he intends to do on Saturday night in London.

“I understand you’ve got to take the good with the bad. I always say this to the fighters: ‘You don’t go swimming and not expect to get wet.’ You’re gonna get hit. I understand I can lose Round 1, I can lose Round 2, but I’m still coming for ya.

“There’s no point in even saying too much — I’m just gonna show you on the night, and I think there’s gonna be people coming away saying, ‘We’ve got another one of these new guys coming through,’ where everyone goes, ‘F***!’”

“You’re gonna see it — I’m gonna be smiling like a Cheshire Cat,” he said when asked what it would mean to collect a victory this weekend. “It’s my dream!”