Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

What’s the best trait of each man?

This is a classic “striking versus grappling” matchup, to make it simple. One guy has good hands and the other has good jiu jitsu.

Is there a way to coach that out of somebody or how do you drive home that it needs to be more than looking for one?

Chartier: It’s always gonna rear its ugly head, but on fight night, it’s constantly reminding them to get touches — get touches, get touches, and the power will be there — and that’s when you see guys get knockouts. When people load up on punches, you’re generally not seeing it.

You just have to keep reminding them because (when you’re searching for that one big shot) is when you’re gonna be heavier on your feet, easier to take down, and your punches come out slower.

So get your touches and let the natural power punches come out. You’re not going to take it out of the fighter, but you just keep reminding them that the power is gonna be there, so just get those touches and it’ll happen.

Path to Victory

Kyte: You already mentioned this is a classic striker versus grappler pairing, which more or less tells you the path to victory for each guy, right?

Kyte: You’ve just got to go out there, do you, land shots, and get the ball rolling forward.

X Factor

Kyte: Okay — what, if anything, is the X-factor in this fight?

Kyte: No matter who you’re training with, how good your squad is, he’s fought four minutes in the last two years and now he’s gotta face the champion, who has been cruising. It’s a big ask, and definitely something to keep an eye on, for sure.

So if you’re Pantoja, do you look to drag this out and test that? Try to drag him into the latter rounds?

I think you go out there looking to get it to the ground, get the back, get the choke, get the TKO, whatever it is, and then if you fail, you know you can drown him. I just don’t think he’s gonna look to be pretty — he’s just gonna come forward.

One Coaching Curiosity

Kyte: In terms of a curiosity point, what’s the thing you’re looking to see or the question you want answered?

Kyte: Same, especially how well he’s used it the last few fights. It’s the clear avenue here, so he should be changing levels and getting on his hips early.

Chartier: Overlooks him a little bit.

Kyte: Yeah, and not in a massive way, but maybe he’s just a little bit looking ahead, a little over-confident. He’s 80 percent of himself and it gets a little spicy?

Kyte: For sure! It’s gonna be fun.