Everyone loves The Fighting Nerds. According to the Brazilian team’s leader, head coach Pablo Sucupira, the reason is simple.

“I think we just represent more people,” he said. “Because when you're talking about Fighting Nerds, you think, ‘Man, even if a nerd can be an MMA champion, I can do it, also.’ It's more human. I think a lot of people relate with the concept and it's something different. We always see the same thing; it’s always the bullies. So I think this time we are showing that the guys who were bullied can be the champions also. It's a different narrative.”

It's a brilliant concept, complete with the tape holding their glasses together, and in a sport where toughness is king and weakness is not spoken of, Sucupira’s team has truly changed the narrative, proving that toughness isn’t something you talk about, but that you display in the gym and on fight night.

“I think we're supposed to be here,” he said. “We're supposed to be in the battle and in the war. When we realized that your best version that you could be is what you are, this makes you happy, makes you present. I was talking with my wife at lunch, and I think we are the best tool ever to change a specific kind of people. I see some guys in the gym that I think nothing else could do better for them than the fight game. So that's what makes us happy. We're getting the best version of ourselves. That's the main point.”

But the big question is, what does it take to become a Fighting Nerd?

“It takes two things,” said Sucupira. “Dedication and results. We are working at the highest level and for high performance. So it's not just dedication. I think we are at a level that someone must have dedication and must have the results.”

The results from 2024 speak for themselves, but it took a lot of hard work over the years to become “an overnight success.” And to keep the ball rolling, they can’t rest on their laurels. Everything has to keep progressing, in and out of the Octagon. It’s a philosophy Sucupira has had for years, and he’s not changing it.

“I think it all started because I'm getting old,” he laughs. “I'm married with a beautiful wife, she's pregnant, and MMA is a really hard business to gain money. So I started to realize that the most important thing with my team is to make sure the athletes there can provide for their families. So I have to look at my team as a company because we have to make a lot of money. And since my team started to grow so much now, it doesn’t matter if I'm competent or not; it's how the team works. So every company, usually you have three important things: people, structure and process. People, we were like 10 guys and now we are 60 fighters. The whole team with the staff is like 80 people. So it's a lot. The structure is getting big. We just rented a new gym, so it’s getting bigger. And the most important part is the process. I have to create a really, really good process and people need to understand and obey those processes because I won't be there too much. I'll be traveling all over the world. So when my team gets that big, the boss needs to be the process, not me.”

That’s good business. But that doesn’t mean Sucupira and his squad aren’t close. It’s very personal in their gym, with everyone showing up to help each other get ready for fights while walking into battle together, glasses and all.

“Sometimes it's hard to believe, but man, I can only say I'm thankful for being surrounded by so many good people,” Sucupira said of the culture he’s created. “I'm blessed with that. It looks like everybody who is in contact with me is good people. Sometimes I have such a good energy with everybody that that's what they give me back. And with my team, I'm sure that I'm on the right path. I don't know if I'm at my peak or close to my peak, but I'm on the right path. So the only thing I have to do is do a hundred percent every time and I'm doing that. Time and God will say how long our team will go and how long and how many people we will be good for. I don't know what's the end of that story of The Fighting Nerds culture, but I think we are reaching something that nobody had before.”

The end is certainly not here. In fact, while the story may have taken off internationally in 2024, this year, Sucupira is aiming even higher.