
“It was crazy because I was in pain, I hurt myself, and I realized we’re grinding here and we’re at this facility where no one really cares about you. I realized, ‘Ah crap — I can do this at home, where at least I’ve got my wife, my kids, and my coach, who made it personal.’ Sayif (Saud) made it personal to try to look after you.”

“Me and Sayif have always been good,” he said of the reunion with his old team. “I never left on bad terms; I just told him I needed to expand, and that’s what I did, traveling around, finding out what I can add to me.

“It wasn’t anything sour, so I was like, ‘I’ll just go home.’”

Reflecting on the changes, the veteran light heavyweight admitted that returning home has been an incredible feeling.

“It’s been a blessing because I remember that two years being in Colorado, just being uncomfortable; traveling from Colorado to Florida, being uncomfortable,” he explained. “I know they say uncomfortable is what you need to grow, but just to be uncomfortable at Fortis, developing all my skills, and just focusing on being a better martial artist, a better fighter, and being in the presence of my family, it’s been a blessing, for real.”

“I was ready to compete. I’ve been training since September. Y’all don’t know, but I had a cast — last fight, I broke my hand — and after that came off, I have just been training. They had me waiting until March, and (so when) this opportunity came up, I was like, ‘Yeah, I’ll take it.’”

“He’s a young guy, looking to make a statement, and I look forward to shutting that all down.”

For Menifield, who currently sits at No. 15 in the light heavyweight rankings, Saturday’s main card fixture is an opportunity to leverage his 21 professional appearances and 14 previous trips into the Octagon against the promotional newcomer, knowing what it’s like to touch down on the big stage with a ton of hype and expectations.

“I know I’ve been having a problem with just go, but I realized to settle down, so maybe I’ll teach him that.”

“Exactly,” he said when asked about finding that middle ground. “Wherever the fight goes, I’ll be as smart as I can.

And then, he’ll go home, back to his family, and back to the familiar, caring environment at Fortis MMA.