
"And I was like, 'I'll happily prove you wrong before you even get a chance to fight my boy.' So that's it."

"Every fan can look at this fight and they'll feel exactly the same way that I'm feeling. And it is pure excitement.

"It's like, when these two exceptional strikers come together, what's going to happen?

"For me, I'm seeing it from a slightly different angle, of like, not just what's going to happen (but) how am I going to overcome this?

"That challenge, it boils a certain fire of excitement inside me to want to just train hard to get to this point and then just make it happen."

"It's like two rams, just non-stop going back and forth until somebody's ego subsides and you might see them go to a different Plan B, Plan C, and try to work (it) a different way.

"We're both exceptionally confident in our styles, and that is what we're going to be putting forward first. The thing is, I've been working on other aspects of my game. I'm also confident that I can beat him in other areas. So, for me, I feel like there's a bit of an ego, a bit too much of an ego, for him to want to go elsewhere.

"So, even when he's stuck – if we're striking and I'm beating him and he's stuck – he'll probably continue staying in that space, which is fine for me. Whereas for me, I feel I can take him down. I can work him on the ground. I can stand him back up. I can mix and match the game. Whereas he'll just want to be in one area."

"So while on track to pursuing my main goal, if there are detours of entertaining fights, I will 100 percent take that.

"If it's entertaining enough, it's big enough, it's good for myself, good for the UFC, good for the fans, I'll do it. But yeah, like I said, I haven't lost sight of what I want to do or I want to achieve."

"People that are normally the ones that are always winning are not necessarily winning at the moment, you know? So there's a lot of moving parts. All the high ranks are dropping, which means there's movement, there's space for me to wiggle my way through.

"So yeah, I think it depends on what happens. Who loses, whatnot, but me having these kind of big fights, big knockouts, hopefully keeps pushing me towards the belt. So, we shall see soon."