
Co-Main Event: Zhang Weili vs Tatiana Suarez

Before Du Plessis and Strickland run it back, strawweight queen Zhang Weili defends her title against unbeaten challenger Tatiana Suarez in a fascinating co-main event matchup.

Zhang made just one appearance in 2024, but it was a memorable one, as the two-time titleholder rallied to defeat her compatriot Yan Xiaonan in a thrilling back-and-forth battle at UFC 300. The Chinese standout has now earned four straight victories and consecutive successful title defenses since reclaiming the belt towards the end of 2023, and will look to remain atop the division while handing Suarez her first professional loss this weekend in Sydney.

Long considered a future champion, the 34-year-old Suarez finally gets the opportunity to challenge for UFC gold. The former Olympic wrestling hopeful and Ultimate Fighter winner has earned six wins and four finishes since her time on the long-running reality TV competition, and looks to become the sixth woman to sit atop the 115-pound weight class by maintaining her unblemished record and turning back Zhang.

This is a fascinating contest on a number of levels, beginning with the stylistic dynamic between these two. Zhang has utilized her grappling and physicality more in recent bouts to control and subdue opponents, but Suarez is a phenomenal wrestler and grappler who has yet to be bested or tested on the canvas. There are also the contrasting questions about age and health, as Zhang is now 35 years old and closing in on 30 professional appearances, while Suarez has struggled to remain healthy and hasn’t fought since submitting Jessica Andrade in August 2023.

Wang Cong and Bruna Brasil meet in a fascinating flyweight pairing in Sydney on Saturday.

Wang garnered a ton of buzz with her RTU win in May and first-round knockout of Victoria Leonardo three months later, but landed on the wrong side of one of the biggest upsets of the year in November when she was submitted by Gabriella Fernandes. After dropping her opening bout of 2024 in February, Brasil got herself back in the win column in July, venturing to Manchester and out-hustling Molly McCann across three rounds.