
McMann was an Olympic silver medalist and had made a successful transition to MMA, having posted six straight wins to begin her career, including victories over veterans Tonya Evinger, Hitomi Akano, and Shayna Baszler. She was heralded as a potential challenger for fellow Olympian and then women’s bantamweight ruler Ronda Rousey, but needed to get a win under her belt inside the Octagon first.

This effort might have been the best McMann ever looked in the UFC, and while some of that is because she was fighting an overmatched opponent, I would argue it’s also because she stuck to what she did best and fought with supreme confidence. While the rest of her career would feature mixed results and questionable decision-making at times, McMann dominated from start to finish in this one.

She had Gaff on the deck in three seconds, the German running forward into a double leg takedown, and while she eventually worked her way back to her feet several minutes later, McMann stayed locked to her, dragged her back to the canvas, and advanced to a mounted crucifix position, pounding out the finish.

When it was done, she rose to her feet and offered a playful bow, as if to say, “I hope you enjoyed that; I sure did.”

Yan opened her UFC tenure with six straight wins, slowing working her way the strawweight ladder before consecutive losses to Carla Esparza and Marina Rodriguez halted her ascent momentarily. She entered this one off a majority decision win over Mackenzie Dern, buthovering in limbo when it came to understanding exactly where she fit in the division.

Yan showed where she belonged by taking full advantage of Andrade’s trademark aggression, using her quicker, more technical boxing to batter the veteran before catching her with a clean right hand down the pipe as Andrade charged in recklessly.

“We got a new strawweight contender!” boomed Jon Anik on the broadcast. As always, J.A. was dead-on, as Yan went on to challenge compatriot Zhang Weili for the strawweight title in her next appearance, pushing the champ to her depths in a tremendous five-round battle.