Jaqueline Amorim is not just on fire; she is lighting up the strawweight division. Following an initial loss to Sam Hughes, where she took the first round on all scorecards and noticeably fatigued, Amorim has won three in a row, all by finish.

“It was one of the first submissions I learned,” Amorim shares to UFC.COM, “It’s just automatic for me.”

Automatic is the perfect word for how dominant Amorim has been. Amorim has finished all her wins and is already tied for seventh in women’s strawweight history for submissions and third in submission attempts.

Being such a high-level grappler comes with some issues, as Amorim is not afraid to pull guard. This is not a big issue when first making strides in the UFC, but spells trouble when faced with other high-level grapplers. Amorim loves to implement her slick transitions out of pulling guard to reverse the position.

“I think it’s important to stay active because you get less nervous the more active you are,” Amorim tells UFC.COM, “I think it helps your performance when you are always ready.”

It seems that Amorim is already starting to adapt that veteran mindset of repetitions and being active. This only adds to her evolution.

Amorim understands what it takes to succeed in the UFC and the task in front of her, and she is not writing off her opponent whatsoever.

Her opponent, Polyana Viana, is a decorated BJJ brown belt and has eight submission victories. With both fighters having armbar submission wins in the UFC, it will be interesting to see what happens when the fight makes it to the ground.

Viana has also finished every win, so this fight has all the tools to end within the distance. Viana’s latest win was a TKO victory, and it will be very interesting if Viana can stop Amorim’s takedowns and keep the fight standing.

Having said that, Amorim still holds the advantage by coming into this bout in form and she has already shared what her expectations are post-fight.

There will be speculation about the strawweight rankings if Amorim can secure a win this Saturday. Let’s not look too far into the future, but Amorim has all the tools to start making the climb up the strawweight Top 15. It is not a matter of if she can make the rankings, but when.