
The youngest female on the roster — and fourth youngest fighter overall — Lucindo has already accomplished a great deal despite having just turned 23 at the start of the year.

The strawweight standout brandishes a 17-5 record that includes a 4-1 mark inside the Octagon, having rebounded from her debut loss in 2022 with four consecutive victories, which have carried her to No. 7 in the strawweight rankings. Last time out, the streaking Brazilian collected a split decision win over long-time contender and divisional fixture Marina Rodriguez, which in turn set her up for this weekend’s showdown with Amanda Lemos.

Obviously, there are a lot of reasons to be excited about a prospect like Lucindo, who should still carry that label despite the fact that she could potentially take up residence in the Top 5 with a win on Saturday. What’s most impressive about her thus far (to me) is the combination of her ability to fight within herself and her uncanny gameness for someone so young.

Here’s what I mean: with a lot of young fighters, they try to do too much — either in terms of throwing spinning and flying attacks that needlessly burn energy, or are simply looking to do things that aren’t really in their arsenal — but Lucindo largely sticks to her fundamentals and the things she’s good at, which is utilizing her solid striking game and mixing in grappling when the situation calls for it.

On top of that, she genuinely wants to be in there and doesn’t shy away from the moment, regardless of who she is in there with. In her debut loss to Yazmin Jauregui, which came when she was still 19 years old, the Academia Fight House representative stood in there with her Mexican counterpart the whole way, despite Jauregui being a massive favorite and fighting relatively close to home in San Diego.

Those are things that often take a great deal of time to develop and build in fighters, if they’re able to develop or build those traits at all, and Lucindo already possesses them. It’s honestly wild that she doesn’t get more attention because she’s the largely actualized idea of what everyone hopes young fighters like Raul Rosas Jr. can grow to become, minus the “but we still have to wait and see” of it all.

Lemos is a massive test and a former title challenger, but she has also toggled between wins and losses for her last couple fights, and with 38 on the horizon, this could be a good time for Lucindo to pick off her fellow Brazilian and claim her place in the upper echelon of the 115-pound weight class.