With three UFC victories to her name and nicely settled in her new home of Las Vegas, Luana Santos says she’s ready to take her game to a new level as she looks to climb the UFC’s women’s bantamweight ladder.

Santos arrived on the world stage in August 2023 with a 5-1 record and immediately made her mark with a first-round TKO of Juliana Miller on her Octagon debut, and subsequent wins over Stephanie Egger and Mariya Agapova. A decision loss to Casey O’Neill saw the Brazilian take her first UFC defeat, but she bounced back with a second-round submission of Tainara Lisboa in May.

Now she’s set to take on Canada’s Melissa Croden, whose Octagon debut saw her defeat Lisboa via third-round TKO in October. With a shared opponent in their most recent respective outings, it’s a matchup that makes plenty of sense for both women, and a challenge that Santos is excited to take on.

“I told everyone it’s a tough fight. We're talking about someone who is tough and has experience. She's got 10 years on me,” she said.

“I could see from her fight that she is someone that doesn't have quit in her. You can see someone that gets a flash knockdown, and she comes back, and she gets up back to win the fight. I have that characteristic, so you’ll see two people that just really want it.

“I think she had a well-deserved win against Tainara. I think she was very strategic. I'm ready. I'm prepared. We're both ready for this fight, and I think the best will come out of it. It will be me, and I will have another win on Saturday.”

Santos was originally set to follow up her victory over Lisboa with a bout against Darya Zheleznyakova on November 8. Then, when the Russian athlete was forced off the card, Croden agreed to step in on short notice.

The bout was then rescheduled to December 13, and now, after a stop-start build-up, Santos finally gets to step into the Octagon at the UFC’s final event of the year.

“I was supposed to fight in November, but obviously the fight fell through. But it just gave me time for it to prepare. I’m happy,” she explained.

“It’s obviously tough, because I found out about a week before the fight was supposed to happen that the fight fell through. So you kinda get disappointed, because you’re ready to fight,” she explained.

Fortunately for Santos, she is part of one of the most respected MMA gyms in the world. The Sao Paulo native made the decision to move to Las Vegas to be a part of the city’s Syndicate MMA team on a full-time basis. Being in the city also puts her in the perfect spot to take advantage of all the facilities the UFC has to offer athletes via the UFC Performance Institute. It’s a move Santos said has already made a huge difference.

“I love being at Syndicate,” Santos enthused.

“Also, Vegas is kind of my vibe. I love seeing people. I love being around people, too. And having the infrastructure, and everybody from the PI, the help they have here from the UFC, it all contributes. So it’s been very good for me, and great for my career.”

With all the pieces in place, Santos plans on making the most of everything at her disposal to take her game to the highest level possible. And her constant desire for improvement will ensure that she’s always chasing the next incremental gain in her technique, whether it’s on the ground or in the stand-up

“I am an athlete that wants to get better. I am someone that's always trying to evolve. Someone who’s trying to improve their game,” she said.

That evolution will get its latest showcase on Saturday night when Santos faces Croden in a women’s bantamweight matchup on the preliminary card of UFC Fight Night: Royval vs Kape at the UFC APEX.

For the 25-year-old, it’s the latest chance to test out what she’s learned in the gym as she looks to put plans in place for a big year in 2026.

“I want to evolve, I want to be active, and I want to have more opportunity. So I want to fight as soon as possible (in 2026),” she said.

To make that dream a reality, Santos knows she needs to deliver an eye-catching performance against Croden this weekend. And the judo black belt plans on doing exactly that at the UFC APEX on Saturday night, though she admitted she couldn’t accurately predict how she’ll get the job done until it actually happens.

“One thing I can never predict is actually how a fight is going to be won. One punch can change the fight and change things,” she said.