Don’t sleep on Vanessa Demopoulos because she’s been out of the Octagon since September of last year. She was still thinking about punching somebody in the face, and she acted accordingly.

“I love being a student,” she said. “I love learning, I love growing, and I think what’s honestly kept me an athlete for the last 15 years is that I genuinely enjoy learning new things. So, for me, I get to have the most fun in between camps, when I'm training with new people and I'm going out and I'm exploring different stuff and I'm learning crazy things and I'm finding out more and more things. I feel like fighting is this giant anomaly and everybody thinks that they have the answer on paper, but I'm constantly growing and evolving, so whether I'm in camp or not, that always keeps me engaged.”

Now with a fight scheduled for this Saturday against Talita Alencar, the Cleveland native and Las Vegas resident is back in camp, but the desire to keep evolving has not waned. In fact, it’s motivated her even more as she looks to bounce back from a loss to Jaqueline Amorim that snapped a two-fight winning streak. And while the focus is always on the fight in front of her, there’s still that desire, at 36, to one day put a strawweight championship belt around her waist and, more importantly, leave a lasting impression on the sport.

Demopoulos has always gotten it. And when she’s been on a roll on fight night, to the tune of separate winning streaks of three and two fights, it appeared that the perfect storm was approaching.

“You’ve got to know when that mic is hot,” she said. “You’ve got to know what's happening when the moment is happening. So I love it, and yeah, it's a part of it. I'm an entertainer in my heart. I'm an artist. I've always been an artist. So the cage is where I get to shine, and then when you give me a mic, that's when I also get to shine because I'm used to that. I like the attention, I want it. I thrive on that.”

Key defeats to Karolina Kowalkiewicz and Amorim paused her momentum, but she reeled off wins over Kanako Murata and Emily Ducote after dropping a decision to Kowalkiewicz in 2023, and she expects to start a new winning streak this weekend. After that, who knows? But the “Lil’ Monster” is here for all of it.

“Everything else is going to unfold along the way,” she said. “Listen, if I wake up and find myself in a title position, hey, I'm that bitch and that can f**king happen. But I think, overall, impact and helping people and doing what I love and beating the s**t out of people along the way is definitely grade A for me. If that's what happens, I'm living a good life.”