
Co-Main Event: Julianna Pena vs Kayla Harrison

Before the boys close out the show, the ladies will light up the Octagon as Julianna Pena puts her title on the line against Kayla Harrison in the bantamweight championship co-main event.

Pena claimed the title for a second time with a dogged split decision win over Raquel Pennington last October in Salt Lake City. It was a quintessential Pena performance, as the first female Ultimate Fighter winner leaned on her grit, tenacity, and steady output early to race out to an early lead and hold off the champion down the stretch in the closely contested bout.

Harrison also competed on that card in Salt Lake City, earning her place as No. 1 contender with a unanimous decision win over Ketlen Vieira earlier in the evening. Though it wasn’t as dominant as her debut win over Holly Holm in April, there were probably more positives to take away from her most recent outing, as the two-time Olympic gold medalist showed she could push through three hard rounds, at altitude, in a tough stylistic matchup with a perennial contender.

It will be interesting to see what transpires, especially with the potential for a massive fight with 2025 Hall of Fame inductee and former two-division champion Amanda Nunes sitting out there as a huge opportunity for whomever emerges with the belt around their waist should “The Lioness” end her retirement.

The barrage of flyweight action taking place as of late continues here, as Ariane da Silva steps in with Wang Cong.

After posting three straight wins upon returning to the 125-pound ranks, da Silva heads into her first appearance of the year looking to halt a two-fight skid, having landed on the wrong side of things against Karine Silva and Jasmine Jasudavicius in 2024. Wang has alternated results over her first three UFC appearances, scoring a blistering knockout in over Victoria Leonardo in her debut before getting submitted by Gabriella Fernandes in her sophomore outing, then besting Bruna Brasil earlier this year at UFC 312.