
With Zhang Weili set to defend her strawweight title against Tatiana Suarez at UFC 312, Kyte called upon Danny Castillo, chief corner for recent title challenger Yan Xiaonan, to dive into the matchup and dissect the fight over the series’ four key points.

But I’m very interested to see how that plays out. It’s gonna be a good fight. There are a lot of boxes unchecked for me, for Tatiana, so I’m excited to see the fight.

Kyte: What is it about Suarez’ wrestling because, to me, from the day she turned up on The Ultimate Fighter, the day she turned up in the UFC, it was clear that she’s on a different level. What is it that separates her? What is it that differentiates her from more or less everybody else.

What I mean by that is that she’s very good in the open, so traditional freestyle wrestling, collegiate wrestling, but also, so very good in the clinch, so her Greco-style wrestling is very good. She can throw, she can pummel really well, she can control the tie-up, and her size and grit where she can put you on the cage (are all very good).

Kyte: You mentioned the championship pedigree and championship experience as a big positive for Weili, and I agree — I think it’s something we don’t talk about enough in championship fights.

Castillo: Championship fights on their own is one thing, and then five-round fights is another thing, and Weili has both. Tatiana doesn’t have either of those; I think she’s only been the distance twice, so that’s gonna be huge.

As I rewatch the fight with Weili and Yan, it almost seemed like Weili was starting to slow down in the fourth and fifth rounds, and that’s when her experience kicked in. That’s when she slowed the fight down, that’s when she went to the takedown, that’s where she controlled the fight.

Gas tank against gas tank? It’s up in the air — and these are the boxes that are unchecked for me. Will Weili be able to take her down and slow down the fight like she did against Yan? It’s also going to be interesting to see how Tatiana is able to push in the fourth and fifth rounds.

As far as Tatiana, I think it’s about her imposing her will — using her size, being a bully in there. She’s a very long fighter, so her being able to dictate the spacing, close the distance when she needs to, and force the wrestling (is her path to victory).

Her wrestling and her grappling are better than Weili’s, but not by much, in terms of submissions. She's a better wrestler than Weili is, overall, but not by much.

Castillo: It’s really challenging for me (to know what to expect in this fight) because Tatiana has had so many long layoffs; she’s had a three-year layoff and almost a two-year layoff.

In those layoffs, fighters that are high-level wrestlers, the gains they’re able to make are not like other fighters, because they’re so experienced with the way they use their bodies. It’s going to be interesting to see — even though she was on these long layoffs, I’m sure she was training, so the possibility of her being able to make huge gains in the striking department is high.

Her being comfortable to use those against a dangerous fighter like Weili is another thing where we have no idea. But she has a great camp, and her striking coach Romie (Aram) is a great coach, so I’m sure they’ve gotten so much better in their striking and they have a great game plan. It’ll be interesting to me to see if he was able to get her to be comfortable with the improvements in her striking, because everyone can improve, but when you have someone trying to kick you in the face, take your head off, that’s when things change.

Comfort is a big one for me. I know she’s gonna be better than the fighter she was the last time we saw her — that’s just the way she is — so it’ll come down to if her comfort is there.

Kyte: It’s interesting, and maybe I’m a pessimist or too anxious about these things, but I come to it from the other side of things where it’s been a year-and-a-half again, she’s had six fights in eight years in the UFC since she won the Ultimate Fighter, and at what time do all these injuries start to create a situation where we’ve just missed the best version of Tatiana Suarez?

It would be a tragedy and one of the greatest “what ifs,” but it’s a thing for me that I think about because I know what I’m getting with Weili — she’s turning up ready to go, fit as can be, has been there, done it, has the t-shirts.

A healthy, fully ready version of Tatiana? I love this fight, but after all these layoffs, is there a point where you just can’t get it all the way back? I hope she is steps ahead of the last time we saw her, because she looked good against (Jessica) Andrade, and I hope she’s made gains, but the hesitant version of me can’t shake the question, “Did we miss the best version of things?”

We know that Weili deals well with adversity — Yan dropped her once or twice in that fight, and she bounced back, responded very well — and she’s a true champion. I view her as going down as one of the greats in female history.

But I wanna see how she does against such a great wrestler.