Despite a valiant effort from Manon Fiorot, Valentina Shevchenko started her second reign as flyweight champion like she never left. The 25-minute affair was an intriguing chess match but, ultimately, “Bullet” made the better adjustments late to stamp yet another title defense to her name.

A SuperFight might be on the horizon as strawweight champion Zhang Weili continues to call for a champ-vs-champ bout, but a handful of young and hungry contenders are circling as well.

This is where we stand in the women’s flyweight division:

Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Zhang Weili (11/15/2025)

Outlook: Shevchenko, both surprisingly and unsurprisingly, made easy work of “Magnum” in what some were calling a superfight. Shevchenko used her unparalleled sense of timing, distance, and athleticism to stifle Zhang completely. Afterward, she sounded like she had plenty left in the tank at 37 years old, welcoming challenges from either Natlaia Silva or Erin Blanchfield while also throwing her name in the ring for a shot at Kayla Harrison and the bantamweight title should the opportunity present itself.

Last Fight: TKO Win vs Jasmine Jasudavicius (10/18/2025)

Outlook: After dropping her bid for gold earlier this year, Manon Fiorot made changes and saw them come to beneficial fruition immediately as she knocked out Jasmine Jasudavicius in Vancouver. “The Beast” believes she found a new home for training at Tristar Gym in Montreal, and she looked as sharp as ever in her short bout against the Canadian. With Shevchenko still on top, Fiorot will likely need at least one more win before clamoring for a rematch, but she is still very much in the mix to become France’s first undisputed champion.

Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Alexa Grasso (5/10/2025)

Outlook: Since joining the roster in June 2022, Silva has done nothing but win, often in exciting displays of striking and footwork. The Brazilian is in the midst of a 13-fight winning streak, with the last seven coming in the Octagon, with her last two wins coming against former champions Grasso and Jéssica Andrade. After dismantling Grasso in May, some believed she was more than ready to challenge Shevcheko for gold, and she presents some unique challenges for the champion. If she doesn’t get an immediate shot, a fight with Erin Blanchfield probably makes the most sense.

Outlook: The former flyweight champion was behind the pace when she last stepped into the Octagon to face Silva. Somewhat surprisingly, the 32-year-old is now 2.5 years away from her last victory, which happened to be when she submitted Shevchenko to win the belt. Winless in her last three, Grasso has some work to do, but there is plenty of opportunity left on the table, whether it’s a fight against Rose Namajunas, Jasmine Jasuadvicius, or Tracy Cortez.

Last Fight: Submission Win vs Tracy Cortez (11/15/2025)

Outlook: “Cold Blooded” exacted revenge on Cortez for their fight seven years ago and did so in impressive fashion, running Cortez across the cage before snatching a creative submission in the second round. The victory came in Blanchfield’s lone fight in 2025 after her main event against Maycee Barber fell apart at the last moment. The 26-year-old has looked every part the title contender since joining the roster, and she could now be on the cusp of that opportunity once again. If she isn’t fighting Shevchenko next, a fight against Silva makes the most sense.

Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Katlyn Cerminara (3/9/2024)

Next fight: vs Karine Silva (12/6/2025)

Outlook: “The Future” has been on quite the odyssey since beating Katlyn Cerminara at UFC 299. Health issues abound. Barber hasn’t been able to extend her 6-fight winning streak and solidify her place in the wide-open title picture, but she is hopeful to put a few of those doubts to rest when she fights Karine Silva on the last numbered event of 2025. If she can make it to and through the fight without incident, she remains one of the more intriguing challengers for

Outlook: Namajunas seems to have acclimated well to the flyweight division since making the move up in September 2023, and the 33-year-old isn’t all too far from competing for a second title. “Thug Rose” bounced back well with her win over Miranda Maverick, and other than Fiorot, she hasn’t faced anyone in the division’s top-5. As a former champion, her name will always carry plenty of value, and so any of the fighters hoping to earn a crack at the belt could give her an opportunity to carve out a title shot for herself.

Meanwhile, Cortez and Jasudavicius are in similar boats after suffering losses. They remain two contenders on the outside looking in, but that only means they need to string together two or three wins before making their bid for the belt.