
What It Means: “Iron” is an all gas, no brakes kind of fighter who is a fight fan’s dream. At times, Chandler seems to choose the most entertaining avenue to fight rather than taking the easiest path to victory, but his skill and mental toughness buoy that approach in a big way. He carries major power in every strike he throws, and his frame, while shorter, is sneaky long, and he has a good ability of darting in and out of range and timing explosive punches. He has heavy leg kicks, as well, and his athleticism aids him in getting out of poor positions.

What to Look For in the Fight: Chandler is likely going to have the speed and power advantage on the feet, so Pimblett could be well-served to challenge Chandler’s wrestling pedigree early to take a little bit of steam off Chandler’s punches. Chandler does use a wide stance in the standup, and that can leave him susceptible to leg kicks on occasion, a weapon Pimblett used with great effect against King Green. Chandler will almost certainly test Pimblett’s striking defense and chin, and he is the hardest hitter the Scouser has faced in the Octagon to date. Meanwhile, Pimblett might be able to find a submission if Chandler makes a mistake in a scramble.

What It Means: “Carcara” is a wizard of a submission artist. Over the course of her career, her striking and wrestling have improved enough to make the most of her jiu jitsu skills, but a fight with Jandiroba always comes down with how well a fighter can navigate the grappling realm. She is patient when fishing for submissions, but when she finds a window of opportunity, she pursues it with a frightening efficiency.

What to Look For in the Fight: Another stirker-vs-grappler matchup, Yan has shown excellent takedown defense in the past, and she does well to regain distance and get back to the center of the Octagon. Jandiroba will be at an athletic disadvantage, but if she can drag the fight to the ground, she will have her chances to either control Yan on the canvas or threaten submissions. Yan will likely circle on the outside, where she can walk Jandiroba into bigger strikes as the fight wears on and frustration sets in for the Brazilian.