
The reason I point this out is because no competitor is a finished product, and there are can be emerging names to track at every checkpoint along the road from debutant to dominant champion, as headliner Maycee Barber could have very well been featured in this space this weekend given that she’s been out of action for over a year, but returns to face Erin Blanchfield while riding a six-fight winning streak, which screams “on the rise.”

Currently stationed at No. 5 in the rankings, the former Ultimate Fighter winner has posted a 7-3 mark over her first 10 UFC starts, with one loss to former champ Raquel Pennington and another to former title challenger Irene Aldana; the third came in her third outing opposite Swedish veteran Lina Lansberg. She holds a split decision victory over Norma Dumont, who is unbeaten since and one spot ahead of her in the rankings, and comes into this one having earned consecutive stoppage wins over Pannie Kianzad and former title challenger Mayra Bueno Silva.

The 33-year-old Fortis MMA product is an imposing figure in the bantamweight ranks, standing five-foot-11 with a long reach and undeniable strength. It has taken her some time to develop her game and figure out how to best deploy her weapons, but she’s patiently done so and looked outstanding over her last two fights.

This weekend, Chiasson steps in with Ketlen Vieira, whom she’s been scheduled to face on two different occasions in the past. The Brazilian has been in the mix at the top of the division for the last several years, but is yet to garner a championship opportunity of her own, coming up short in her biggest assignments.

With Julianna Pena set to defend the title against Kayla Harrison next weekend at UFC 316 in Newark and former champ Amanda Nunes looming large over that matchup, this is an opportunity for Chiasson to stake her claim to a place in the title conversation and move a couple spots further up the rankings.

This is the precise opportunity she needs to show she’s a bonafide threat in the 135-pound ranks, and it will be interesting to see if she’s able to make the most of it on Saturday night in Las Vegas.