Nathaniel Wood earned a unanimous decision win over Daniel Pineda last time out in Manchester, but the 31-year-old featherweight will be the first to acknowledge he was kind of on autopilot throughout the fight. He looked solid, hurting Pineda multiple times while racing out to a two-round lead, but his thoughts weren’t on the dangerous veteran in front of him; they were back in London with the family’s youngest fighter, his daughter, Arla.

Born at the end of April, she faced health issues straight away, and was subsequently diagnosed with having a hole in her heart that would eventually require surgery to repair. In the days leading up to his bout, his wife brought her to the hospital out of extreme precaution, and Wood couldn’t keep himself from worrying more about the situation at home than the matter at hand.

"It was super-tough,” Wood said of his last fight, just a handful of days away from returning to action at home in London against Morgan Charriere. “The fight was in Manchester, so it was in the U.K., but it was nowhere near where I live, so I had to stay up at the hotel.

“She is very well, thank you,” Wood said when asked for an update on his first-born, who will become a big sister later this year. “She is the happiest girl I think I’ve ever met — she’s always smiling, it doesn’t take a lot to get her laughing.

“It’s nice now that we’ve had the feeding tube taken out, because that wasn’t very pleasant for her,” he added. “Now that that’s out, at the moment, touch wood, she’s eating quite a lot. That’s a good sign and hopefully we can keep it out for the time being.”

In addition to Arla being in good health, the fact that the fight is in London provides a sense of calm and focus for Wood, as well, as rather than spending the week in the host hotel, he’ll be home every night before taking a couple hours on Saturday to go to work, returning home once he’s done handling his business.

And when it comes to fighting in London — or England as a whole, really — there are few more rock-solid inside the Octagon than Wood.

“The trick of being in London, in my hometown, is that I can focus purely on the fight; I have no exterior worries going on about what’s going on at home,” said the GB Top Team man. “When I fight in London, with that crowd, I feel like there’s too many people here for me to let them down.

While he struggled to stay dialed in against Pineda, Wood has been fully focused through his preparations for this weekend’s clash with Charriere, and touched down at the outset of fight week locked on the target.

Though not the ranked opponent Wood had lobbied for following his win over Pineda, landing opposite Charriere is arguably the next best option, if not better than facing some of the lesser-known, but ranked, competitors in the 145-pound weight class.

“Morgan Charriere is a very exciting fight, a massive name,” Wood said, beginning to offer his thoughts on the matchup and his opponent. “He’s got a bigger name than (lots of people in the Top 15). He’s a huge name in France, it’s an exciting matchup, and I’m totally up for it.

“I look at him similar to how I look at myself: he’s a high-level grappler — a black belt in judo and jiu jitsu — however, he prefers to strike; a lot of his fights have been a good scrap. We’re a very similar age - I’m two years older than him - and our records are pretty well identical — we both have 20 wins; he has 10 losses, I have six losses — and we were both Cage Warriors champs.

“I want to get one in before the baby is born, but I do want to be around for the birth. I just have to get this fight out of the way,” added Wood. “(So the plan is) go in there, smash Morgan Charriere, come out uninjured, healthy, and get back in there.”

But for right now, thankfully, Wood is focused exclusively on the task at hand, and once again making the walk in front of a raucous, partisan crowd at The O2 Arena in London.

“I can’t wait,” he said when asked about striding to the Octagon on Saturday. “It’s an addictive feeling. I’ve experienced it and I want to experience it again.