Diana Belbita returns to action this weekend fresher, fitter, and stronger than ever as she prepares to step into the Octagon as a UFC flyweight once again.

Belbita fought her first two bouts at 125 pounds before dropping down to 115 pounds and claiming her first UFC win over Hannah Goldy back in July 2021. But, after winning just once more in the four fights that followed, Belbita knew that a change needed to be made.

Belbita’s last Octagon appearance saw her submitted by Molly McCann in the last second of the opening round.

Whenever there’s a buzzer-beater submission, the natural question is whether the losing fighter could have held on for one more second to survive the round. But for Belbita, she knew her fight was well and truly done.

“I got a lot of messages with people telling me, if you'll have survived a second there, you’ll have made it to the second round,” she explained.

“So no, it’s not frustrating that it happened in the last second. It was frustrating because it happened so unexpectedly, because tendons don’t (usually) snap so quick. I went through that pressure on my arm so many times, and it just happened too quick, too easy.

That defeat prompted Belbita to move up to 125 pounds, and she was grinning from ear to ear as she explained how much better she feels heading into fight week this time around.

“It feels a lot better to fight at flyweight, because I don't have to starve every day, and I have a lot more energy for training,” she smiled.

In addition to building herself back up physically, Belbita has also taken the time to work on her mental health.

She revealed that throughout her career she has dealt with a rollercoaster of emotions as she builds herself up before fights, only to then descend into the depths after a morale-crushing defeat.

Taking some time off, Belbita said, gave her the breathing room to rest, reset and clear her mind ahead of this weekend’s matchup.

“It's always hard after you lose a fight,” she admitted.

Now Belbita has moved up a weight class and feels stronger than ever, and she can’t wait to test herself against Dione Barbosa this weekend in Las Vegas.

“I think she's amazing, especially because she's a judoka, she's an Olympian, and I love that,” she grinned.

“Me and my mom, we love the Olympic Games. I’ve watched it since I was a baby, so it’s really fun for me. Like when I fought Karolina Kowalkiewicz, I wanted that on my resume, to fight somebody that fought for the title. Yeah, the fight didn't go my way, but it was an amazing fight, and I loved it. And I'm happy for that.

“It’s the same thing this time. This girl is an Olympian, and I love that. But judo is not MMA, and I'm a judo girl – I'm a brown belt in judo, so I know that part, too. I know how many changes I had to make, because what you do in judo is not gonnawork at the moment you add elbows and knees and punches.

“So, I know how hard it is for her to make that transition. And for me, being a judo girl, I feel like that's really what makes me know her better, and to know a little bit of her gameplan.”

Belbita wouldn’t be drawn on her fighting future beyond this weekend, but she did open up on how she plans to attack Saturday night’s clash with Barbosa.

“I saw a really good interview a few days ago,” she explained.