
Kline waltzed into the Octagon and lived up to her advanced billing, securing a second-round stoppage win that showcased both her technically sharp grappling and her ferocity from top position. As soon as she was able to really settle into a control position and feel comfortable on top in the second, Kline went to work with her elbows, splitting Dudakova open and continuing to rain down blows until the referee was forced to step in and halt the action.

What continues to stand out about Kline is how well-rounded and fluid she is in all phases. She moves well on the feet, switches stances, looking comfortable in both southpaw and orthodox, and is excellent on the canvas, brandishing a solid submission game and the punishing ground-and-pound she showed in registering her first UFC victory earlier in the month.

At 24 and sporting a 7-1 record, Kline is still in the early stages of her career, but the upside is clearly there, and seeing how quickly Blanchfield has gone from debuting in the UFC to emerging as a legitimate contender at 125 pounds serves as a template for the growth and development we could see from her teammate. Obviously, they’re different fighters with different skills, but having seen one young talent from that squad make a rapid rise through the ranks shows they know how to coach up skilled prospects and maximize their abilities.

While it’s just one fight at strawweight, there is reason to believe Kline will be able to follow a comparable path as Blanchfield, which means emerging as a contender in the next two years is a very real possibility. Given how she ran through Dudakova, it might not even take that long.

Dern has worked diligently to round out her abilities in the Octagon since reaching the UFC, putting in tons of work with Jason Parillo to get to a point where opponents have to respect her hands, flashing some power and showing time and again that she’s got a ton of grit and toughness. But like a lot of athletes that reach the UFC with one dynamic skill set, focusing on building their secondary weapons often leads to the primary skills taking a bit of a back seat.

After earning submissions victories in four of her first six UFC wins, the 31-year-old went over three years without registering a submission win. Some of that is down to the level of competition she has been facing and their focus on avoiding getting tapped out, but Dern’s abilities on the canvas are such that it always felt like leaning into her submission game was her best path to victory and becoming a full-fledged contender in the strawweight division.

Even when she wasn’t in top position, there was an understanding that Ribas needed to be very careful with her movements and mindful of spending too long on the canvas with her. After splitting the first two rounds, Dern initiated the clinch in the third, but Ribas was initially the one to land in top position, only to have Dern immediately start isolating an arm and looking for a submission.

While the first setup didn’t produce anything and Ribas defended the second well, Dern stayed poised and remained in attack mode, used the grip she had on the arm to sweep into top position, and after resetting herself and landing some elbows from top position, switched off and snatched up the finish with only a couple ticks remaining in the round.

This is when Dern is at her best — when she’s leaning on her world-class grappling and constantly making opponents pay for being on the ground with her, using her secondary weapons and traits to create opportunities for her to attack using her elite jiu jitsu.

This was one of those fights where there wasn’t a key incident that caused the shift in momentum and the tides to turn. In fact, it was just the opposite, much like the bout between Erin Blanchfield and Rose Namajunas in Edmonton at the start of November. In that fight, as in this one, you could just see the frontrunner — Nurmagomedov here, Namajunas there — start to slow ever so slightly, losing a little of the crispness to their punches and movements as the fight continued to progress, while their adversary just kept chugging along.