Lerone Murphy has checked every box and passed every test so far in his mixed martial arts career. Now he plans on delivering a statement performance to put himself exactly where he wants to be – in a fight for the undisputed featherweight title.

England’s Murphy has showcased his well-rounded skillset and elite Fight IQ during nine UFC bouts that have seen him remain undefeated. Now standing with a record of 16 wins and one draw, the Manchester native is ready to welcome former Bellator standout Aaron Pico to the Octagon.

Pico was originally set to face the division’s other highly-ranked undefeated contender, Movsar Evloev, but after that fight fell through, Murphy got the call, and he was more than happy to step in to face the American in the co-main event of UFC 319 this weekend in Chicago.

“It came at short notice – two-and-a-half weeks ago – so it came around quick, but it's been a blessing,” Murphy explained.

At this stage in Murphy’s career, accepting a short-notice assignment isn’t an automatic decision. His goals are clear – to get to the top of the UFC’s featherweight division and capture the 145-pound title currently held by Alexander Volkanovski.

With Murphy currently sitting sixth in the official UFC featherweight rankings, he knows that only big wins, over significant opposition, will move him closer to that goal, and he feels that Pico represents that elite-level opposition he needs to move into championship contention.

I think he’s better than a lot of those fighters in there, and may be the best fighter I've fought so far. So, yeah, it definitely does (put me in the title mix). And Movsar was the number one contender fight, right? And I've stepped in. So if I win, it's my time.”

As soon as Pico was signed to the UFC, Murphy had eyes on the former Bellator star as a future opponent. But while he recognizes the former collegiate wrestling standout as a legitimate contender in the division, Murphy makes sure he knows exactly what’s going on at 145 pounds, from the top to the bottom of his weight class.

“I watch everyone,” he explained.

Murphy and Pico will provide chief support as the night’s co-main event, and Murphy said that he’s relishing the prospect of stepping out into a packed United Center and putting on a performance in front of the world in the biggest matchup of his career to date.

“Yeah, it's a big spot. Big, big, massive spot – probably the biggest spot of my career so far,” he said.

And in a big fight, on a big stage, Murphy said he’s ready to pick up a big win, and said he’ll do whatever’s necessary to finish the night with his hand raised.

“By any means possible,” he stated.