In 2025, Valentina Shevchenko quite simply continued her dominant reign over the flyweight division almost as if her saga with Alexa Grasso never happened.

And so, yet another year approaches where Jon Anik’s question following her 2021 win over Jéssica Andrade ring true:

Contenders: Natalia Silva, Erin Blanchfield, Rose Namajunas,

Ones to Watch: Maycee Barber, Manon Fiorot, Tracy Cortez, Jasmine Jasudavicius

Outlook for 2026: Shevchenko started 2026 defeating Manon Fiorot in a gritty but mostly controlled affair in which she out-struck the French kickboxing ace while also handling her physically. “The Beast” wasn’t ever really able to get out on the front foot, and ultimately, her name was added to Shevchenko’s rubies along her UFC belt.

Then came what was tabbed as a “superfight” against strawweight champion Zhang Weili in New York City. Instead, it was a masterclass for Shevchenko. Not once was the incumbent in any sort of danger, and “Magnum” grew more frustrated with each passing round. At this point, Shevchekno’s greatness is well-acknowledged but also perhaps underrated due to how simply and clinically she is defeating her foes. She finds a path to victory and sticks to it without overextending herself, which is perhaps why she hasn’t earned a stoppage win since 2021, but to reiterate the point: she hasn’t had to do it. Nearly every win since then has been a clear-cut affair.

Blanchfield is right in the thick of things too. The 26-year-old prodigious talent was limited to one fight in 2025 when her main event with Maycee Barber was scrapped at the literal last moment, but she made the most of her chance and submitted Cortez at in the second round at UFC 322. “Cold Blooded” has impressed since joining the roster as a 22-year-old in September 2021, picking up wins over Andrade, Taila Santos, Molly McCann and Namajunas on her way to a 9-1 record in the Octagon. Depending on how things shake out, she might need to snag another victory to cement her claim on a title shot.

That fight could come in a rematch with Fiorot, who beat Blanchfield on the scorecards in their March 2024 main event. “The Beast” responded well to her loss to Shevchenko, starching Jasudavicius in the first round in Vancouver and reminding everyone of her quality in the weight class. Maycee Barber was able to quiet the critics with a victory over Karine Silva at UFC 323, her first fight since March 2024 after dealing with a bevy of health issues. “The Future” is on a seven-fight winning streak, and if she can regain some of the momentum she lost, she could find herself in the title picture in the second half of 2026 as well.

On the other hand, Cortez and Jasudavicius will have to find their ways back into the winner’s circle, but they are both considered two of the more intriguing talents in the weight class, so if they can string together consecutive wins in 2026, they might set themselves up for a title run in 2027.

Other Names to Track: Karine Silva, Miranda Maverick