
The first fighter to grace the Octagon from the initial triumvirate of talents spotlighted on the opening event at the UFC APEX, strawweight standout Fatima Kline, turned in an outstanding effort, finishing Viktoriia Dudakov in the second round. Since then, however, it has been a series of setbacks, with recent Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) graduates Nicolle Caliari and Austin Bashi suffering setbacks before the unbeaten trio of Clayton Carpenter, Rinya Nakamura, and Payton Talbott all suffered their first professional losses at UFC 311.

Very few people enjoy their job as much as Jasmine Jasudavicius, and the Niagara Top Team representative had an extremely good year at the office in 2024.

She kicked things off by punishing Priscila Cachoeira for missing weight for their UFC 297 meeting in Toronto, setting a record for largest striking differential in a women’s bout (326-26) before submitting her late in the third and reveling in the victory in her home province. In July, she ventured to Denver and outworked late replacement Fatima Kline, soaking in the jeers of the fans in “The Mile High City” before returning to her home and native land in November and posting a unanimous decision win over Ariane da Silva that carried her into the Top 15.

The 35-year-old, who lives by an “I’m here for a good time, not a long time” ethos, opens her 2025 campaign by welcoming Mayra Bueno Silva back to the flyweight division this weekend.

Don’t let Jasudavicius’ age fool you — she was a late arrival to the sport and only made her pro debut in the summer of 2019. After earning five wins in her first six fights, she bested Julia Polastri on Season 5 of Dana White’s Contender Series, punching her ticket to the UFC roster, and has since made more appearances inside the Octagon (eight) than she had prior to arriving on the biggest stage in the sport.

While she’s established herself as a Top 15 fighter in the flyweight division, Jasudavicius is also still developing, and you can see that progress each time she competes. She’s more grit than grace, more tenacity than technique, but she’s highly effective when it comes to utilizing her grappling and physicality to body opponents and make them bend to her will.