
You know it’s a loaded month when a Top 5 matchup and potential title eliminator clash is flying under the radar, but such is the case with this weekend’s matchup between Ketlen Vieira and Norma Dumont.

Dumont is a relatively new addition to the championship mix, having earned her place on the heels of an absolute drubbing of Irene Aldana at Noche UFC last year at Sphere that pushed her winning streak to five. She’s 8-1 since dropping her promotional debut with a quality list of vanquished opponents and was originally slated to face Pennington earlier this year before the former champ was forced to withdraw, resulting in Dumont being reassigned here.

There are never any guarantees when it comes to championship opportunities and how things will shake out, nor has there been anything promised to either of these women, but with Harrison and Amanda Nunes feeling destined to fight in the next six-to-nine months, the winner of this one could be next in line to challenge for the title, especially if they can win with style points.

D’you know what’s even better than a Top 10 matchup between ascending talents in the flyweight division? When that pairing is also a rematch from a debated fight, which is the case here as Erin Blanchfield and Tracy Cortez run it back on the UFC 322 prelims.

Blanchfield returns to action for the first time this year after her main event pairing with Maycee Barber at the end of May was scuttled in the minutes before the fighters were set to make the walk to the Octagon. After opening last year with a decision loss to recent title challenger Manon Fiorot, Blanchfield rebounded with a come-from-behind unanimous decision victory over Rose Namajunas in Edmonton to cement her standing as a Top 5 threat in the 125-pound ranks.

A short-notice loss to Namajunas two summers back halted Cortez’s lengthy winning streak and unbeaten run inside the Octagon, but the Phoenix-based DWCS alum immediately rebounded with a unanimous decision victory over Viviane Araujo in June at UFC 317. Now 6-1 in the UFC, including a victory over Jasmine Jasudavicius that has aged nicely, Cortez aims to take another step forward in the divisional ranks with a second straight win.

These two first met in February 2019 under the Invicta FC banner, with Cortez coming away on the favorable side of a split decision verdict that many observers remain split on to this day. Each has only lost once since, and with things at the top of the division slowing for a moment, the timing for the sequel has never been better.

Two-time champions share the cage in the first of UFC 322’s twin “Champion vs Champion” clashes as Valentina Shevchenko defends her flyweight title against former strawweight queen Zhang Weili.

Shevchenko reclaimed her place on the flyweight throne last September with a unanimous decision win over Alexa Grasso to settle their rivalry. Earlier this year, “Bullet” solidified her position with a similar result against Manon Fiorot, giving her eight successful title defenses across her two reigns, adding to her record for the most of any female champion in UFC history.

The last time Zhang fought in New York City, she trounced Carla Esparza to win the strawweight title for the second time before going on to earn successful title defenses against Amanda Lemos, Yan Xiaonan, and Tatiana Suarez. Having proven her superiority in the 115-pound ranks, the Chinese standout congratulated and challenged Shevchenko after her UFC 315 win and looks to become the second female two-division champion after Amanda Nunes with a win at Madison Square Garden.