
Last week, Norma Dumont was featured in this space ahead of her fight with Ketlen Vieira, which felt like a potential title eliminator, or at the very least, a critical matchup in the bantamweight division. Dumont earned the split decision victory, extending her winning streak to six and positioning her as the clubhouse leader in the chase for the next championship opportunity, once the fight everyone assumes is going to happen happens.

This week, it’s Cavalcanti’s turn to be recognized as an ascending name in the 135-pound weight class as the Portuguese standout returns to action for the second time this year, facing off with former vacant title challenger Mayra Bueno Silva, aiming to extend her record to 5-0 in the UFC and push her record to 10-1 in the process.

The 28-year-old Cavalcanti has been steady as they come since arriving in the UFC, posting four consecutive decision wins. Don’t let the splits in the middle of that quartet trick you either: those were complete outlier cards that no one other than the official submitting that scorecard arrived at, and while there were competitive fights, they were Cavalcanti’s fights, without question.

Cavalcanti is still relatively young in her career —she fought once in 2018, didn’t fight for three years, and then has added nine more appearances over the last five years, working her way down the scale from lightweight to bantamweight, picking up good wins throughout her journey. The best win of her career, honestly, is probably her LFA title fight win over Melissa Croden, who debuted last month in Vancouver and won by third-round stoppage, overwhelming Tainara Lisboa; Cavalcanti beat her on the scorecards in a solid five-round scrap, with scores of 49-46, 48-47, 50-45.

What makes “The Nightmare” such an interesting name to track in this division is that she has good size and strength for the division while doing everything at a solid level, with obvious room for growth. She’s looked more comfortable, more polished, more refined each time out, and as she continues to build experience inside the Octagon, it’s not out of the question for her to grow into a legit Top 5 talent with the tools needed to be champion one day.

Bueno Silva is an excellent test for Cavalcanti this weekend: a veteran talent who has fought at the highest level, competed against a host of contenders and former champions, and is coming off three straight losses and a no contest, which should, in theory, have her chomping at the bit to show she’s still a threat and someone that can excel at this level.

Beating someone with the pedigree of “Sheetara” would be a major statement for Cavalcanti, and while things at the very top of the division are starting to get backed up, a win here would put her in a position to log a couple fights against the middle third of the Top 15 in 2026, with another win or two possibly putting her in the title conversation.