
Co-Main Event: Valentina Shevchenko vs Zhang Weili

Just as UC 315 featured a flyweight title fight as the penultimate pairing, so too does UFC 322 as champion Valentina Shevchenko welcomes two-time strawweight titleholder Zhang Weili to the 125-pound ranks in this thrilling clash of all-time greats.

Shevchenko successfully retained her title in Montreal with a hard-fought, unanimous decision win over Manon Fiorot, winning the fifth round — and therefore the fight — on two of three scorecards. The 37-year-old from Kyrgyzstan is now 10-1-1 in a dozen flyweight title fights, and 25-4-1 in her illustrious career while showing little sign of slowing down.

Zhang reclaimed the strawweight title three years ago in New York City, mauling Carla Esparza at UFC 281 to kick off her second reign over the 115-pound weight class. Since then, she’s added unanimous decision wins and successful title defenses over Amanda Lemos, Yan Xiaonan, and Tatiana Suarez to her resume to move to 26-3 overall, and 10-2 in her UFC tenure.

You could make a case for this being the best matchup between female competitors in UFC history, both in terms of overall skills and the achievements the two women carry with them into the Octagon. They’re 24-5-1 in 30 combined UFC appearances with just a single defeat coming in a non-title matchup, and two of the most stacked resumes of vanquished foes you’re going to find.

Stylistically, this one feels as if it hinges on how well Zhang transitions up a division, as a portion of her success at strawweight has been predicated on her strength and overall physicality. Shevchenko is a master technician and tactician, with some of the best counter-striker skills in the business, so it will be interesting to see how the challenger approaches things when these two legends stand opposite one another on Saturday night.

What a difference two years can make. Less than 24 months after registering his second successful title defense at UFC 296, Edwards touches down in NYC on a two-fight skid, facing tons of questions about whether he can get things moving in the right direction again. It’s never been a question of talent with the Birmingham man, but rather self-belief and drive, and if he can turn up with those two things fully stocked, there is no question that “Rocky” can rebound and solidify his footing in the division he once ruled.

Basic as it sounds, how this one plays out rests on which version of Edwards turns up on Saturday and whether he’s able to implement his game plan, because you know Prates is coming forward, left hand loaded and ready to fire, eager to finish things quickly. The British standout is the more complete and savvier of the two men, without question, but he needs to be locked in from the jump in order to avoid a third straight loss.

The decorated wrestler Nickal suffered the first loss of his MMA career last time out when he was felled by Dutch standout Reinier de Ridder in the second round. A six-time IBJJF world champion at black belt, Vieira has gone 6-3 over his first nine UFC appearances, entering Saturday’s contest off the first decision win of his career.

The result of their first meeting on the regional circuit remains a topic of debate, but this weekend, Erin Blanchfield and Tracy Cortez meet in New York with a place at the top of the flyweight division in their sights.

Blanchfield earned a steely unanimous decision win over Rose Namajunas last November in Edmonton, but hasn’t fought since after her end-of-May bout with Maycee Barber was cancelled just as the duo readied to walk to the Octagon. Cortez, who landed on the happy side of a split decision verdict in their first encounter, lost to Namajunas on short notice last July and then rebounded with a strong decision win over Viviane Araujo at UFC 317 in July.

Strawweight rankings mainstay Angela Hill faces off with highly regarded prospect and New York representative Fatima Kline in this fascinating preliminary card matchup.

The 40-year-old Hill holds a number of records in the 115-pound weight class and touches down in NYC in search of a return to the win column and a second victory this year. Kline has gone 2-0 since returning to strawweight following her short-notice debut at flyweight last year, earning second- and third-round stoppage wins over Viktoriia Dudakov and Melissa Martinez, respectively.