
Shouts to Carli Judice and “The Kimura Twins,” Brendson Ribeiro and Da’Mon Blackshear; outstanding work!

Alexia Thainara wasn’t originally supposed to make her UFC debut in London opposite beloved Brit “Meatball” Molly McCann, but visa issues forced compatriot Istela Nunes out of the matchup, opening the door for the Ribas Family representative to make the transatlantic voyage and step into the Octagon for the first time.

From dancing and vibing throughout her walk to her celebratory dive onto the canvas, Thainaraenjoyed every minute of her first UFC experience. She looked excited, but not overwhelmed; energized, but not on tilt, and she absolutely took it to McCann from Jump Street, ultimately finishing the former Cage Warriors champ in the waning moments of the opening round.

In both the striking and grappling realms, the Brazilian was a step, maybe a step-and-a-half ahead, operating without hesitation or real concern for what was coming back her way; fighting like someone that had made that walk several times before, not a promotional newcomer. For me, those are telltale signs that someone has a real chance to climb the ranks early in their UFC careers, and that appears to be the case with Thainara.

A member of last season’s graduating class from Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS), Thainara has benefited from a pair of booking changes in her two UFC-related bouts. She was initially paired off with Fatima Kline last season before the New Jersey native was called up to face Jasmine Jasudavicius in Denver, paving the way for the charismatic 27-year-old to thoroughly out-work Rose Conceição and earn her contract before the opportunity to face McCann fell in her lap.

The strawweight division feels like it’s at the very start of a youth movement, one that will reshape the landscape of the 115-pound ranks over the next couple years, and after a dynamic opening appearance, it wouldn’t be surprising if Thainara as very much a part of that ascending group and eventually finds herself a cozy little place in the rankings.

It felt like a fight-ending blow, and Bosaski charged forward to get a close look as Tomar pounced and tried to pound out a finish. But Bannon had her wits about her enough to corral her opponent when she made the mistake of shifting her attack to the ground, initially tying her up to clear the cobwebs before deciding to get offensive off her back.

After Bannon regained her guard, Tomar postured up, standing with her arms extended, prompting Paul Felder to state on the broadcast, “She’s gotta watch her arms here.” Unfortunately, Tomar couldn’t hear “The Iron Lung” on comms, because he was bang on.

Bannon climbed her guard a little higher and then collected Tomar’s right leg with her left arm, off-balancing her to where she fell to the canvas, allowing the Irish strawweight to attack an armbar. Initially, Tomar defended properly, getting as tall as she could while working to get her arm out of danger, but when she lingered and looked to stack Bannon up, she actually putherself deeper into the hold, allowing “Mama B” to begin shifting her hips, extending the arm, and ultimately secure the tap.

This was an absolute “snatching victory from the jaws of defeat” moment for Bannon, who was rightfully ebullient following the win, and a massive learning moment for Tomar, who was as close to landing one of the best knockouts of the month as you can be while still ending up on the wrong side of the results.

By the way: Felder called that Tomar had put herself back into serious trouble just before the tap, too. He’s absolutely tremendous as an analyst.