
Co-Main Event: Valentina Shevchenko vs. Manon Fioro

In the co-main event of the evening, flyweight champion Valentina Shevchenko begins her second reign in a matchup against No. 1 contender Manon Fiorot.

After two years and three fights spent battling Alexa Grasso, Shevchenko emerged from the trilogy where she was at its outset: stationed atop the 125-pound weight class. The 37-year-old superstar dominated the third bout with her grappling, registering a clean sweep of the scorecards to move to 10-1-1 in the flyweight division and 24-4-1 overall.

Fiorot touches down in Montreal having earned victories in each of her first seven UFC appearances and a dozen consecutive bouts overall. In her last two outings, the southpaw from Nice, France has earned unanimous decision wins over Rose Namajunas and Erin Blanchfield to cement her standing as the top title threat in the division.

It’s crazy how much things can change in just a couple fights. After Shevchenko lost the title, there were questions about whether she was on the downside of her career, but having returned to the throne in impressive fashion, it seems like that talk has quieted down. Fiorot is a legitimate threat with the physicality to potentially neutralize some of the champion’s best offensive weapons, so it’s going to be fascinating to see how this one plays out once these two stand opposite one another on Saturday night.

Former champion Alexa Grasso faces off with ascending Brazilian Natalia Silva in the second of Saturday’s three crucial flyweight contests.

Grasso enters this fight in a unique position, as she’s both one fight removed from having entered as champion, while also having gone without a victory over her last two appearances. She had been perfect in the division prior to her second and third bouts with Shevchenko, and if she can get back to that form here, the Lobo Gym representative will show that she’s still amongst the division’s elite.

Ranked flyweights Jessica Andrade and Jasmine Jasudavicius meet in the first of the night’scrucial contests in the 125-pound weight class.

Andrade, who holds the record for the most UFC appearances by a female fighter, enters having gone just 2-4 over her last six fights and having lost each of her last two appearances at flyweight. Jasudavicius rolls into Montreal on a hot streak, having posted three wins in 2024 to force her way into the rankings before earning a unanimous decision victory over Mayra Bueno Silva earlier this year to extend her winning streak to four.