
One half of this weekend’s headlining duo, Nassourdine Imavov, has steadily climbed the ranks in the middleweight division with a pair of previous wins in Paris, while co-main event combatant Benoit Saint Denis registered a dominant stoppage victory on the preliminary card of the promotion’s first event on the shores of the Seine. Additionally, William Gomis, who returns this weekend, as well, has also enjoyed elevating performances in Paris, while featherweight finisher Morgan Charriere has saved his best performances to date for the moments when he’s in front of the partisan crowd in “The City of Light.”

The “core four” of the Fighting Nerds — Caio Borralho, who faces Imavov on Saturday, Jean Silva, Carlos Prates, and Ruffy — have gone a combined 20-1 in the UFC and, to a man, each of the others will tell you that Ruffy is the most naturally talented, skilled fighter of the bunch. It’s not just lip service either: all three men are ultra-confident in their own skills, and head coach Pablo Sucupira sings the praises of the lot, but if you asked them who the most lethal of the group is, they’d all point to the man that faces Saint Denis in the co-main event on Saturday.

But Ruffy reminded everyone of his brilliance in March when he delivered one of the best knockouts of 2025 so far, measuring and connecting on a spinning wheel kick that put King Green on the canvas in a flash and elevated his record to 12-1 overall.

There is some vintage Conor McGregor to Ruffy’s game — the wide karate stance, the dexterity, the speed and precision — and while he resides at the other end of the bravado spectrum as the Irishman, his upside is genuinely the same as McGregor’s when he touched down in the lightweight division: he can be UFC champion.

That may sound hyperbolic or hurried to some because he’s yet to face or beat a Top 15 opponent, let alone someone in the Top 10 or Top 5, but the 29-year-old Nerd has all the tools to be a serious contender in the 155-pound ranks and challenge for championship gold, and all he’s lacking right now is an opportunity to prove it.

Saturday’s matchup with Saint Denis is another solid step up in competition for Ruffy; a date with a ranked opponent with a 100-percent finishing rate, in his own backyard, as he tries to make up for faltering in the main event the previous year. The former French military man is aggressive and dangerous, especially early, and the most significant test to be put in front of the Brazilian yet, and how he does will go a long way to helping figure out whether his ceiling is truly as high as it seems.

If Ruffy continues his winning ways and scores another emphatic win over Saint Denis on Saturday, a date with a Top 10 opponent could follow, and with the division currently in a fluid state, who knows where a win there could carry him?

Born in Guinea and now based in Belgium, Keita is a plus athlete with excellent quickness, a diverse striking arsenal, and a nose for the finish, having earned 10 of his last 13 wins inside the distance after opening his career with three consecutive victories on the scorecards. His only loss came in a championship fight as a result of a leg injury, and he’s been back to being lights out since, resulting in fans and observers regarding the “Black Panther” as one of the best talents outside of the UFC prior to his signing.

Pitbull carried the same designation during his decade-plus rule under the Bellator MMA umbrella, but he faltered in his first UFC appearance, landing on the wrong side of the scorecards in a clash with former interim champ Yair Rodriguez. He got things moving in the right direction again with a good win over divisional stalwart and perpetual tough out Dan Ige in New Orleans and now makes the seven-week turnaround to welcome Keita to the promotion.

Ruchala arrives from Polish juggernaut and European standard KSW, where he won and successfully defended the interim featherweight title in his last two fights. In the bout before that, the 27-year-old, who trains at both American Top Team and Red Dragon (Czerwony Smok) alongside Mateusz Gamrot, suffered a fourth-round stoppage loss — the only loss of his career to date — to champion Salahdine Parnasse.

While Ruchala had a run early in his career where he was primarily going to decisions, he’s ramped up the aggression and drive to finish in his last three victories, earning stoppages in each outing as he’s continued to establish himself as the clear 1B in the KSW featherweight ranks and garner the opportunity to make the walk to the Octagon this weekend.

He’s up against Frenchman William Gomis on Saturday, which is a perfect introductory test, as “Jaguar” has gone 4-1 in the UFC, but is coming off a split decision loss to Hyder Amil in March that will surely have him fired up to shine on home soil against the promotional newcomer. Though not as divisionally significant as Keita’s bout with Pitbull, it’s still a stern test for the Polish debutant and a chance for Ruchala to instantly show the UFC audience — and his contemporaries — where he stands in the 145-pound ranks.

Featherweight has been heating up again in recent months, and the addition of both Keita and Ruchala spices things up even more as we head towards the close of the year.