Dana White’s Contender Series has proven to be a launching pad for rising UFC stars, offering fighters the opportunity to showcase their skills in front of the UFC CEO.

With one chance to make an impression, DWCS fighters can earn a UFC contract based solely on their performance that night if White believes they have what it takes to compete with UFC talent.

In this series, we showcase DWCS grads who have continued to shine since earning their UFC contract on the show. Next up: one of last season’s standouts, Mansur Abdul-Malik, who will make his third official walk to the Octagon this Saturday at UFC Atlanta.

Coming into his Dana White’s Contender Series matchup at just 5-0, Mansur Abdul-Malik was one of the greener prospects on the show. Yet the Las Vegas native entered his bout against Wes Schultz as a -300 favorite and quickly proved those odds right.

As Laura Sanko mentioned on the broadcast, every strike the 27-year-old threw carried fight-ending intentions, and his power was connecting with Schultz nearly every time. After a dominant opening frame, it would be the first time in Abdul-Malik’s young career that he needed to go into a second round.

Schultz started putting pressure on and, for a moment, it seemed the tide could be shifting. That didn’t last long, however, as Abdul-Malik defended and reversed one of Schultz’s takedowns, eventually securing top position. With a minute-and-a-half left in the round, Abdul-Malik unleashed a barrage of ground-and-pound strikes until securing a TKO victory.

The Xtreme Couture product made his UFC debut less than three months later against veteran Duško Todorović. While you’d expect Abdul-Malik to be under the most pressure of his career making his UFC debut, he fought like he’d been in the Octagon plenty of times before.

Just 30 seconds into the fight, Todorović slipped against the cage and fell to the mat, which Abdul-Malik capitalized on quickly. He launched himself into Todorović’s guard and immediately began throwing a flurry of punches. Todorović managed to get back to his feet, but Abdul-Malik stalked him down and landed a knee flush on his chin, sending him crashing to the canvas. After some ground-and-pound, the referee stepped in and called the fight.

This statement victory sent a strong message to the middleweight division that a now 7-0 prospect had arrived with clear intent to make it to the top.

It all goes down this Saturday at 10pm ET/7pm PT on ESPN+.