Faced with a shorter fight and a different type of opponent at VeChain UFC 322, former welterweight champion Leon Edwards says he's ready to sprint his way back into title contention at 170 pounds.

Edwards takes on Brazilian contender Carlos Prates in a three-round welterweight contest at Madison Square Garden Saturday night in a fight that both men see as a chance to put themselves firmly in the championship conversation heading into 2026.

For Edwards, it's the first step in a new chapter for his fighting career, as the former undisputed welterweight champion looks to embark on a run back to the title and the chance to become a two-time UFC champion.

“For me, my motivation now is just being a two-time world champion,” he told UFC.com in New York this week.

Another title defense followed as he dominated Colby Covington over five rounds at UFC 296 in London, but his title reign came to an abrupt end in the early hours of the morning in Manchester, as he lost a lop-sided decision to Belal Muhammad at UFC 304.

To make matters worse, his comeback fight against Jack Della Maddalena was switched up a month out, with Sean Brady stepping in. It was a significant stylistic change, and one Edwards admits he wasn't able to adequately adjust his preparations for.

“It was two different camps, right?” he explained.

Edwards was largely dominated on the mat by Brady, who eventually submitted him in the fourth round. It was the first time Edwards had suffered back-to-back defeats in his career, and he revealed that he had let the result eat away at him for a while before eventually moving on and turning his attention to the challenges ahead.

“It’s all the normal feelings – the frustration, the annoyance – and after a while, you can't sit and mope about for too long, because, I mean, there's still a career ahead of you. You still want to achieve other goals,” he explained.

Now, having had time to process those losses, Edwards is back and ready to remind the world why he remains a world-class contender at 170 pounds. His fight this weekend against Prates at VeChain UFC 322 is one that genuinely seems to have him excited ahead of fight night. One reason for that is that he gets to share the Octagon with a natural striker for the first time in years.

While Edwards and Prates both come from a striking background, "Rocky" says they're very different fighters, at very different stages in their respective careers. But while their fighting styles may be markedly different, he recognizes the position Prates finds himself in heading into Saturday's fight.

“He’s a good striker. A long, lanky guy,” he said.

That elite-level experience has seen Edwards compete in five-round fights in each of his last eight outings. You have to go all the way back to March 2019 and his win over Gunnar Nelson in London for his last three-round bout.

It's meant Edwards needed to tweak his fight prep to cater to the shorter duration, but he said he's looking forward to throwing himself into the faster pace of a three-round bout.

“Yeah, I haven’t fought in a three-round fight in six years, so I’m excited for that,” he said.

And, after two fights that didn't showcase Edwards at his best, "Rocky" says he's ready to deliver a statement performance at Madison Square Garden to put himself on course for another shot at the gold.

He's already mapped out his route, with Edwards laying out a three-fight plan that goes from New York to London to a title tilt next summer.