Ascending UFC middleweight Anthony “Fluffy” Hernandez is a pretty simple dude; he likes fighting, hanging out with his family, riding dirt bikes, and very little else.

“I did that — got home, rode my bikes, chillin’, and got right back to work,” said Hernandez when asked if he followed through on his stated plans following his win over Brendan Allen earlier this year in Seattle, a victory that extended his winning streak to seven and elevated him into the Top 10 of the 185-pound weight class. “I was back in the gym the same week; there’s always s*** to work on.

The win over Allen was a representation of what makes Hernandez a dangerous and intriguing threat on the middleweight landscape. Unlike his previous four fights, the NorCal native wasn’t able to put away his LFA rival inside the distance, however, his bottomless gas tank, unrelenting pressure, and proven grit helped carry him through the close moments to where he came out ahead on all three scorecards.

While his finishes of Rodolfo Vieira and Roman Kopylov or his main event dismantling of Michel Pereira ring out as the most recognizable of his efforts to date inside the Octagon, grinding out a quality win over a game fighter in a comparable position like Allen actually sends a louder message to the rest of the division than any of his previous victories.

And given the current complexion of the division, it’s an effort that likely contributed to Hernandez’ next appearance coming against fellow ascending middleweight Roman Dolidze, and not one of the more established contenders stationed ahead of each of them in the rankings.

“Yeah, it’s definitely a weird thing where it’s the old blood versus the new blood now,” began Hernandez, who has been steadily working forward in the division since rallying and submitting Vieira at UFC 258 in February 2021. “I feel like the old blood doesn’t want to take the fights with the new blood because they don’t want that s***; they know what’s gonna happen.

Whether it’s coincidence or a conscious thing, it’s hard to argue against the point Hernandez makes.

In recent months, the majority of the matchups involving ranked middleweight have either been between emerging names paired together or veterans with established track records sharing the Octagon. The one notable exception so far this year came at the start of February, when former champion Israel Adesanya faced off with Nassourdine Imavov in Saudi Arabia, where he was stopped by the Paris-based Russian 30 seconds into the second round.

Even at 31, Hernandez can recognize the seismic shifts in the development of young athletes from the time he began his foray into the sport.

“You see little kids out there seven, eight and they’re competing,” he said with excitement. “Where MMA is now versus where it was 15 years ago when I started is crazy. I look forward to actually being a fan when I retire, sitting down and watching these kids.”

Wait — what? Anthony Hernandez intends to be a fan when he retires? The reason the statement is confusing is because in many ways, the 31-year-old Dana White’s Contender Series graduate is an outlier in today’s hyper-online world.

At a time where athletes are focused on building their brands, operating as analysts on their own podcasts and social platforms, and having thoughts and opinions about everyone in their division and most everyone on the roster, Hernandez, by contrast, doesn’t pay much attention to the sport at all, only focusing on his next opponent when he gets their name.

And even then, the majority of the heavy lifting is left to his coaches.

“Right now there is no point,” began Hernandez, laughing when pressed about his post-retirement change of approach. “Why be a fan boy when I’m trying to be the next thing? There is no point for it.

“Do you watch work? Do you watch people’s interviews and s***?” he asked me, a devilish smirk stretched across his face, confident that he was getting a “no” in response and riotous when it came.

“Exactly!” he bellowed. “When I’m done and it’s all said and done, I want to do my part to give back to the kids, actually help out. I wanna do something good, but we’ll figure it out when I get there. For now, it’s all violence, and taking care of my kids and enjoying them because they’re not gonna be young forever, and they already don’t want to hang out with me all the time because they’re already getting to that age.”

While he may not be dialed into what’s happening within the division at all times or keen to discuss the results of the last card, Hernandez knows where he stands, both in terms of the current hierarchy and how his talents stack up against his contemporaries in the championship chase with him.

“That’s all I need,” he said happily, his criteria having been met with his forthcoming clash against Dolidze. “Get me somebody that is ahead of me that is gonna prove that I’m ready for a title and I’ll do the rest.”