
A little over three minutes into his co-main event clash with Aaron Pico, “The Miracle” spun left and planted an elbow in the center of the debuting standout’s forehead, sending him crashing backwards to the canvas in a heap. No follow-up blows were needed and there was no more room for people to question Murphy’s place as a bonafide contender in the 145-pound weight class; Pico was out cold, Murphy’s winning streak had been extended to nine and his record climbed to 17-0-1 overall.

Whether he fights for the title next or not remains to be determined, but it doesn’t even really matter here and now; what matters is that Murphy found the exact right moment to have his breakout performance and force everyone to genuinely consider his place on the very short list of options to face Alexander Volkanovski later this year.

Murphy has been the dark horse in the division for a couple years now, steadily adding to his unbeaten run inside the Octagon and overall by earning clean wins over tough outs, but often remained out of the title conversation while more established names were frequently bandied about. But his days of being relegated to the background are over, and it should not surprise anyone if this performance was exactly what he needed in order to secure that elusive date opposite the Australian champion.

There are others that will undoubtedly want their individual cases to be heard, but Murphy made a deafening statement on Saturday night, and is, at the very least, the clubhouse leader in the race to secure the next title opportunity, and getting past him is going to take a similarly emphatic effort.

While the team has been enjoying a great deal of success over the last few years, this is one of those moments that I know the team’s head coach Pablo Sucupira is going to particularly relish because both Silva and Prates came into their fights off losses and he puts a great deal of importance and weight on showing how the team responds to adversity. Both earned quality wins against very good opponents and being able to return to the gym this week and point to those efforts as further evidence that what they’re doing is highly effective surely means a lot to the thoughtful leader of the sport’s hottest team.

Loopy Godinez scored a big win on Saturday, besting former champ Jessica Andrade by unanimous decision in a fight where she was sharp through the first two rounds and slowed a little as Andrade cranked up the intensity late. The Mexican-Canadian strawweight has made steady progress throughout her UFC career and continues to show glimpses of top-end talent, but will need to carry her output and effectiveness for 15 minutes if she wants to keep working forward in the talent-rich division.