If things had turned out a little differently, Lerone Murphy could easily have been fighting in front of 18,000 fans at The O2 Arena in his homeland. Instead, he’s set to compete in the intimate surrounds of the UFC APEX.

“For me, I trust in the UFC and I trust what plans they’ve got and how they're matching these fights, and where they're matching these fights,” said Murphy ahead of his bout this weekend.

While chatting to UFC.com, you could see an eagerness to Murphy’s responses. It’s not nervous impatience. Instead, it’s a calm anticipation for what’s to come when he makes the walk to the Octagon for the ninth time.

“I’m just ready to get in there now; it's been a long camp,” he admitted.

Another reason why Murphy seemed so content and at ease ahead of his latest test is the knowledge that the UFC have given him exactly what he asked for.

After his unanimous decision victory over Dan Ige at UFC 308 last October, Murphy used his post-fight interview to call for a bout against Emmett, and the UFC matchmakers have duly obliged.

For Murphy, trash talk and heated rivalry couldn’t be further from the matchup. This is simply a case of a talented contender wanting to prove his championship credentials by facing, and defeating, one of the toughest, most respected contenders in the division.

Murphy got the opponent he wanted, and got an added bonus when he was told it would be a five-round main event.

For Murphy, it’s the chance to show the world that he’s championship caliber, and more than capable of performing over the 25-minute duration.

“I believe I'm a five-round fighter,” he said.

With all the pieces in place, all that remains for Murphy is to step into the Octagon and perform, and his eyes lit up when we asked him about the stylistic clash between himself and Emmett.

“It's a great matchup, isn’t it?!” he enthused.

“He comes to fight. He's a banger and he can wrestle, too. I believe I can do the same. So it's two lions in there. You've never seen Josh Emmett quit. You've never seen me quit. And I believe that creates a great fight.

It’s also a fight that sees Murphy step into the main event spotlight for the second time in his UFC career. His first Octagon headliner saw him claim a unanimous decision victory over dangerous veteran Edson Barboza.

Everything Murphy does is all designed with one aim in mind – to become UFC featherweight champion. And he said that an impressive victory over Emmett could be enough to force him into the title picture at 145 pounds.

“I believe this is a number-one contender fight in my eye,” he said.