
Straight out of the gates, Ozzy Diaz and Djorden Santos established a Fight of the Night benchmark for the evening, going 15 hard minutes with Diaz landing on the favorable side of the scorecards. Mairon Santos and Francis Marshall followed, and while the decision wasn’t popular, the fight was competitive and entertaining from start to finish. The early decisions were followed by finishes from a pair of all-action Brazilians, as Carlos Leal and Brunno Ferreira dispatched Alex Morono and Armen Petrosyan respectively before talented flyweight Joshua Van extended his winning streak to three while bouncing Rei Tsuruya from the ranks of the unbeaten.

Van, who started the week in the rankings before the latest update bumped him out for the moment, used his superior striking and overall athleticism to out-hustle the relentless Japanese prospect. In space, Van was the quicker, more polished of the two, and he did exceptionally well stuffing takedowns and getting back to his feet quickly whenever Tsuruya did manage to put him on the deck.

This wasn’t the barnburner most of Van’s previous fights have been, but it was a quality, professional outings for the steadily improving fighter from Myanmar. Van is now 6-1 in the UFC in less than two years on the roster, and could very well find himself with a number next to his name again next week after another strong outing here.

The first round was highlighted by a pair of low kicks by Petrosyan that resulted in a point deduction, making it difficult to know how the otherwise competitive frame was scored. In the second Ferreira turned to his grappling, putting his head down and driving through a double leg takedown just after the midway point of the round, eventually working to attack an armbar and drawing out the tap.

The compact slugger is now 4-2 in the UFC and 13-2 overall, with each of his victories coming inside the distance. While he might be a little undersized for the 185-pound ranks, Ferreira makes up for his stature with his brute strength, undeniable power, and keen finishing instincts, all of which combine to make "The Hulk” must-see TV each time out.

Leal came forward from the opening second and never took a backwards step, continuing to pressure and throw, eventually finding success by beating up Morono’s body with shots from range and the clinch. As is often the case, the body work brought Morono’s hands lower, allowing Leal to shift his target, and up the output, finishing the Fortis MMA man along the fence in the final minute of the opening stanza.

The Brazilian was on the business end of one of the most debated decisions of last year in his debut, and made sure the judges couldn’t get involved here. This was one-way traffic from the jump and a statement win for Leal in just his second trip into the Octagon.

One judge scored the fight 30-27 for Marshall, and when that card was read first, it felt like the American Top Team product was on his way to a second straight victory. But the other two officials saw things in favor of Santos, handing the Xtreme Couture representative a split decision win to kick off his UFC tenure.

Santos was the more aggressive, more active fighter out of the gates, ramping up his output in the final minute of the first after getting Diaz’ rhythm down. But the former LFA champ leaned on his conditioning and experience, working into the fight in the second and cranking things up in the third as the recent Dana White’s Contender Series grad began to fade, only for Santos to find a little more gas and finishing the fight as the one pressing the action.

The judges were called upon to render a verdict, and when the scorecards were added up, it was Diaz that came out ahead, earning the first UFC victory of his career and spoiling Santos’ debut in the process. This was an outstanding fight to kick off what should be an electric night of action inside the Octagon.