
“I’ve been really happy and full of joy this year,” began Yadier del Valle, one of those first-year fighters who just oozes comfort and a sense of belonging. “To be in this great company — I wanted to be here since I was a kid, and the fact that I’m here makes me really happy.

The undefeated 29-year-old is part of the impressive graduating class from Season 8 of Dana White’s Contender Series, a group that has, on the whole, had a tremendous first year competing on the biggest stage in the sport.

After earning his contract last October, del Valle debuted in May, dispatching Connor Matthews in less than three minutes to push his record to 9-0 and landing him a solid step up in competition on Saturday night against Isaac Dulgarian. And as good as he’s been thus far, “The Cuban Problem” said that the best is very much yet to come.

However, Dulgarian is sure to have something to say.

Fighting for the first time in just over a year, the 29-year-old Kansas native returns looking to rekindle the buzz that first accompanied him into the UFC when he arrived as an unbeaten prospect with a string of first-round stoppage wins. He scored a first-round stoppage win over Francis Marshall in his debut, and that victory was followed by a debated split decision loss to prospect killer Christian Rodriguez before Dulgarian bounced back with a second-round submission victory over Brendon Marotte last September.

“I think Isaac Dulgarian is up for his toughest fight because I’m not afraid,” he continued. “I’m not gonna just stand there and be taken down to the ground. I have good wrestling, good takedown defense, and I have very good jiu jitsu, so I think that he is up for a challenge and his toughest fight yet.

Again, it’s confidence and self-belief without straying into conceited territory; he’s expressing the truth as he sees it, the reality he believes will be on display this weekend without making a whole deal of it.

“I think you will see the work I’ve put in reflected in the Octagon,” he said. “The dedication, the hard work, the discipline since my amateur career — you can see that now. God-willing we win this fight on Saturday, we come out with a good win (to end the year), ready to go to the gym as soon as possible to be ready for another year.