
“So I was expecting a really exciting fight there afterwards. I was offered a fight, and I was just confused at the offering. I’m not gonna disrespect anybody, so I won't name any names, but I (decided to) wait and see what comes up afterwards, and still nothing came.

"So I was like, ‘Look, is there an exciting fight for me to have at middleweight?’ and they found it a lot quicker. So yeah, for me, welterweight is definitely where I want to go, but there seems to be more happening at middleweight. For me, I just want to get exciting fights, as regularly as possible, and I feel like middleweight is a place where I can actually make that happen.”

“And then also, he's a person ranked (ninth), so he's in that place where a win over him means I'm pushing forward towards a title. That's what I wanted. Those kinds of fights I just wasn't being offered at welterweight. So, for me, it was just perfect.”

“It's hard to plan in this game, because the game shifts and moves so quickly, sometimes over a few shows. So yeah, after once this one's finished, I'll sit down with the team again and go over exactly what the next step is.”

“Obviously it makes cutting weight so much easier. I'm under zero stress. I feel stronger. I feel like I'm carrying more power. So that helps.

“The negatives are everybody else is naturally that strong, and naturally hits that hard. So sometimes, even when I'm landing certain shots, I'm like, ‘If that hit a welterweight, they'll be on skatey legs right now,’ whereas at middleweight, I'm gonna have to find that shot three or four times before I get the results that I want.

“But, at the same time, because I'm new to middleweight, I haven't really spent enough time here to kind of develop my body in a way it needs to be to truly be a middleweight. I've got the skill to do it, but not necessarily the frame as of yet. But, if I make the decision that I'm going to stay up, then I’ll adjust my training camp.”

“The magnitude of the UFC, the brand,  just the history of it, does weigh on your shoulders. And I didn't feel like it did,” he explained.

“So I came in quite confident about my abilities, had my first fight, didn't really feel like it did anything, or I didn't really feel like I felt any nerves.

“I see a tough challenge, which I'm excited for. I see me hitting this guy a lot, and him still being there, and pushing back and getting up,” he said.

“But there's going to be a couple of shots where he decides, ‘Yeah, I'm out. I'm not doing this.’ I say, he decides, well, my fist or my knee will probably decide that, but he’ll realize he’ll be outmatched.

“Based on how I'm feeling right now, the UFC is definitely going to see a different MVP.”