Drew Dober has made his name in the UFC for his fan-friendly fighting style and penchant for finishing fights.

So, when the UFC needed an opponent for Mexican lightweight star Manuel Torres, Dober was the perfect fit.

"Yeah, absolutely! I mean, If I get punched in the face for a living, I'm glad people are enjoying it," he grinned.

It's fair to say Dober has had more than his fair share of those.

In his 15-year professional MMA career, Dober has notched 27 wins, with 20 of them coming inside the distance. His penchant for getting into all-out wars in the Octagon has meant that he's taken the occasional L or two, but that hasn't dampened his enthusiasm for the sport.

And on Saturday night, Dober will make the walk to the UFC Octagon for the 25th time as he bids to put right some unfinished business that started in Mexico City a decade ago.

Dober was matched with Efrain Escudero at UFC 188 in a match that was expected to deliver fireworks, but one mistake resulted in an early night for Dober as he was submitted inside the opening minute of the fight.

But, despite that bad memory of his last time competing in Mexico City, Dober is happy to be back, and keen to deliver a better display than what he described as an "unfortunate performance" from June 2015.

"Oh, it's fun," he enthused.

"So, yeah. We are not repeating that experience!"

A lot of water has gone under the bridge since that fight, with Dober competing in 19 UFC bouts since that loss to Escudero.

As a result, the Dober we see today is markedly different to the one to stepped into the Octagon at UFC 188.

"The biggest difference, I think, would be self-awareness," he explained.

That self-awareness has helped him claim highlight-reel finishes of the likes of Nasrat Haqparast, Terrance McKinney, King Green, and Ricky Glenn over the last few years.

But his last two outings, against Renato Moicano and Jean Silva, both ended in defeat for Dober, who has taken time to reflect and reset ahead of his return this weekend.

Last month, Dober posted an Instagram photo looking at himself in the mirror, with the caption, "Past mistakes, past failures, worries, and doubts. What are you doing to shut those voices out? As my breathing gets harder, my mind becomes quieter."

We asked him about what that meant, and he revealed the mindset that has taken him through past obstacles to where he stands today.

"When you're by yourself, in your car, you have all the negativity – thoughts, the doubts, all that stuff," he explained.

With that fear silenced, and his love of competition uppermost in his mind, Dober is ready to step out into Arena CDMX for his co-main event clash with Mexico's Torres.

It's a matchup that he recognizes as a clash between two fan-friendly fighters, and he's looking forward to walking out in front of a raucous crowd and putting his opponent's toughness to the test on Saturday night.

"There will definitely be fireworks," he said.

"I definitely know why they matched us up in Mexico City, in front of the Mexican crowd that loves fighting, because they're gonna love this fight. And I'm really excited to see how tough he is.

"I think he's a really cool guy. I like the way he fights, but I think he is similar to me earlier in my career, and I'm the more evolved version of that fighting style."