Championship fights are layered battles with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Play with that gamesmanship a little.

Chartier: You can’t just think about defending takedowns; you have to win the exchanges. I think added to that idea of going forward and getting into your offense, you have to be selective with your weapons too.

It’s gonna be stuff where if you throw it, they’re not shooting underneath it; you’re still catching them.

Kyte: I think both of the title fights are fairly similar in their construction in terms of what the champions want to do, what the challengers are best at, and what they need to do in order to dictate things.

Now we just have to see who can do it.

Kyte: What’s the x-factor in this one for you?

Chartier: I have two things.

You’ve got to have good frames and trying to keep everything in front of you. You’ve gotta resist the urge to turtle, and whatever plan they come up with, you’re repping that out all camp, so that it’s second nature, against guys that are great in that position like Pantoja is.

The other part is situationally, maybe you do ride out a round and take the “L” for that round rather than taking a risk and getting choked out. Better to go into the fifth 2-2 than trying something and getting tapped in the fourth. That’s a game-time decision they’re gonna have to think about.

We talk about it all the time, but it only takes one time where you’re over-confident, too sure of your success, too sure of your abilities that something goes wrong, and I’m always curious about it, especially in fights like this.

Chartier: Right.

Kyte: And I think we all have a little recency bias with this stuff, but that’s where we’re at with this conversation, and it’s surely a motivational piece for Pantoja.

Chartier: For sure.

Kyte: It’s gonna be fun.

Chartier: I’m excited for this card.

Kyte: It’s an outstanding card, and this fight is gonna be amazing.

Chartier: Agreed.