
Opening with a quality effort from Jamey-Lyn Horth, the next three bouts ended in finishing, with Phil Rowe rallying to defeat Ange Loosa, Jose Ochoa collecting his first UFC win by knocking out Cody Durden, and Georgia native Malcolm Wellmaker blowing the roof off State Farm Arena by felling Kris Moutinho. After veterans Michael Chiesa and Court McGee went the distance, the final preliminary card bout wrapped seconds before the first-round expired, as Paul Craig hit Rodolfo Bellato with an accidental upkick while he was grounded, resulting in the bout being declared a no contest.

The light heavyweights were competitive with one another for the majority of the round before Bellato put Craig on his back in the final minute of the frame. From there, he looked to pass the legs and land ground-and-pound, only for Craig to connect with a kick to the face while Bellato was down.

“Maverick” was the slightly more effective of the two in a low-output, grimy battle between the veteran welterweights. While McGee tried to press forward, Chiesa did well to move laterally, landing longer, rangier blows, and prevented the TUF 11 winner from ever getting into a real rhythm or flow.

After a pair of submission finishes, Chiesa added to his winning streak with a sweep of the scorecards in Atlanta. The 37-year-old has spoken about wanting to make a push forward in the division this year, and a third consecutive win should give him an opportunity to face another established name whenever he returns later in the year.

Now 10-0 overall and sporting a pair of nasty knockouts to begin his UFC tenure, Wellmaker is quickly becoming an emerging threat to keep close tabs on in the 135-pound weight class. A considerable step up in competition could be in the offing for the surging first-year UFC fighter.

Ochoa, who trains under Diego Lima, dropped his debut to fellow prospect Lone’er Kavanagh in Macau late last year, but showed why so many people were high on his upside in this one. Just 24 years old, the future is bright for the Chute Boxe product.

The bantamweight staple leaned on his wrestling to grind out a good win against the dangerous Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) alum. While not the brawl the fans at State Farm Arena wanted and far from the highlight reel finish Simon delivered in February, this was a smart, workmanlike win for the Vancouver, Washington native.

A long-time fixture in the Top 15, the soon-to-be 32-year-old Simon remains a daunting assignment for anyone looking to climb the divisional ladder at his expense. Now 10-5 inside the Octagon and 22-6 overall, it will be interesting to see who Simon gets paired off with next as he looks to collect a third straight win.

Loosa controlled the opening round with his wrestling, then stole the middle stanza late in the frame with a short flurry of punches that put Rowe on his back. Prompted to chase the finish in the third, Rowe worked patiently early, fending off grappling entanglements before sending Loosa’s mouthguard flying and drowning him with a torrent of unanswered blows.

This was a tremendous comeback win for the Orlando-based welterweight, who hadn’t competed in just over a year and snapped a two-fight skid by collecting the stoppage. The 34-year-old maintained his 100 percent finishing rate with the win, showing how dangerous he is when he settles in and trusts his weapons.