
In the wake of Valentina Shevchenko holding serve against Zhang Weili and Erin Blanchfield making her case for contention, Maycee Barber and Karine Silva share the Octagon in Las Vegas looking to close out the year by showing why they should be including the title conversation.

This will be Barber’s first fight since she pushed her winning streak to six by defeating Katlyn Cerminara at UFC 299 in March 2024. The 27-year-old has dealt with myriad health issues since, including being forced out of her main event pairing with Blanchfield in May as the duo was readying to walk, and enters this one facing a host of questions, not just about her health, but also her place in the division and the impact this extended absence has had on her skills and her mindset.

Silva rolls into the final number event of the year off a unanimous decision win over fellow Brazilian Dione Barbosa in August that was met with some questions. The victory put “Killer” back in the win column after her extended run of success was halted last November by compatriot Viviane Araujo, and now the DWCS Class of ’21 alum has a chance to propel herself into the Top 5 with a second straight victory.

All eyes will be on Barber throughout the week, as she failed to make weight ahead of the fight with Blanchfield in May prior to being pulled from the contest at the last second. When at full strength and firing on all cylinders, she’s shown herself to be a legitimate contender, however the time away and serious health concerns send her into this one with something to prove.

Every instalment of this series features a “One for Me” fight where I might be one of the few people stoked about the matchup being discussed and this is that one: a bantamweight matchup between Canadian finisher Melissa Croden and Brazilian prospect Luana Santos.

Croden debuted in Vancouver in October, building into her fight with Thainara Lisboa and eventually finishing her Brazilian foe in the waning moments of the third round. Now 7-2 as a professional with seven finishes — and her two losses coming on the scorecards against quality competition — the 34-year-old Alberta resident can establish herself as a dark horse in the division with a second straight UFC win to close out the year.

Santos has gone 4-1 in her first five UFC appearances, bouncing around between flyweight and bantamweight. She too is coming off a stoppage win over Lisboa, and heads into this one after originally being scheduled to compete against Dariya Zheleznyakova in early November.

Amanda Lemos and Gillian Robertson square off in a matchup of Top 10 strawweights aiming to close out the year with another quality win on the final card of 2025.

Lemos steps in for former opponent Iasmin Lucindo, looking to bounce back after being on the wrong side of the results against Tatiana Suarez at Noche UFC in September. The former title challenger has alternated results over her last six outings, and aims to maintain her place in the Top 5 by halting the Canadian’s ascent here.

Robertson has gone 5-1 since returning the 115-pound weight class, earning wins in each of her last four outings. Still just 30 years old despite being eight years and 19 fights into her UFC tenure, “The Savage” feels like she’s finally putting everything together and poised to make a push towards the top of the division.

Will Lemos take advantage of the short-notice opportunity, or can Robertson collect her biggest win to date and extend her winning streak to five?