
Vallejos is one of the most intriguing young talents to touch down in the UFC in some time — a 23-year-old Argentine with a solid amount of experience and heaps of promise, with ample time and opportunity to continue refining his skills and growing as a fighter.

This weekend, Vallejos steps in with fellow DWCS grad Danny Silva, who has earned split decision wins over Josh Culibao and Lucas Almeida to begin his UFC tenure. Tall and lanky for the division, the Bloodline Combat Sports representative has registered four straight wins and victories in 10 of 11 to begin his pro career.

Saturday evening, Estevam faces off with compatriot Felipe Bunes, who rebounded from his debut loss to current No. 1 contender Joshua Van with a first-round submission win over Jose Johnson on the opening card of the year. The 35-year-old, who reps the Pitbull Brothers, was originally scheduled to face off with another talented Brazilian, Andre Lima, and now gets the opportunity to perhaps be the first man to defeat Estevam.

It’ll be interesting to see how the undefeated prospect handles this short notice assignment, and how stepping in to replace Lima impacts him come fight night. He has the talent to climb the competitive flyweight ranks, and if he can navigate this weekend’s contest successfully, Estevam should get an opportunity to take a step forward and face an established name the next time out.

Returning a week earlier than originally planned and vaulted into a main event assignment, Park gets an even greater opportunity to show why he is someone to keep close tabs on in the flyweight division this weekend as he steps in opposite Tatsuro Taira.

The 29-year-old from South Korea announced his presence by winning the flyweight competition on the initial season of Road to UFC, posting first-round finishes in the quarterfinal and semifinal rounds before rallying to submit fellow Korean SeungGuk Choi in the third round to claim the tournament victory. Since then, "Peace of Mind" has added two additional stoppage wins to his resume, beating Shannon Ross in the second and Carlos Hernandez in the third to begin his UFC tenure and advance his record to 10-0 overall.

Park is the perfect example of an emerging fighter beginning to gain traction on the biggest stage in the sport: he's a little older, but still very much in his prime, and faced solid competition on his way to this point, all while possessing a well-rounded skill set that makes him dangerous in every phase, a quality gas tank, and the ability to create and capitalize on finishing opportunities. He's earned stoppages in each of his last nine wins, and has the ability to get to his spots in various different ways.

Originally scheduled to compete next weekend against former title challenger Steve Erceg, Park gets bumped up to the main event here, replacing Amir Albazi opposite Taira. The Japanese standout is coming off his first career loss — a unanimous decision defeat to Brandon Royval last October in a competitive and entertaining clash — and will be looking to immediately steady himself in the talent-rich flyweight ranks.

We often talk about opportunities like this being a win-win situation for the athlete suddenly hustled into the greater opportunity, and that is very much the case here for Park. This is a chance to test himself against a Top 10 fighter that everyone is high on in a situation where expectations are reduced because of the short-notice nature of the bout. No matter how the bout plays out, this is Park's chance to show he can hang with the best in the 125-pound weight class, and if he's able to take full advantage of his impromptu main event assignment, he'll launch himself into the Top 10 and set himself up for even greater opportunities in the future.