
He made his first of two appearances on Dana White’s Contender Series in 2023, landing on the wrong side of a unanimous decision verdict in a clash with Jean Silva. The first and only loss of his career to date, the fact that Vallejos went the distance with the streaking Fighting Nerds representative has continued to age well and made him a must-see attraction when he returned to the APEX last season.

After earning two more successful defenses of his Samurai Fight House featherweight title, “El Chino” made his second DWCS start last September, blowing through Cam Teague in half a round to secure his place on the roster. As a follow-up, he turned in a similar effort against South Korean veteran SeungWoo Choi in his promotional debut earlier this year to advance to 14-1 overall.

A win over Silva would be another early statement win for Vallejos, who feels like someone that could make an expedited rise up the divisional ranks, but would likely be better served being brought along slowly. He’s undeniably talented and has bushels of promise, but top-end experience is without question the best teacher, and the more time he can accrue inside the Octagon before getting thrust into the deep end of the division the better.

Chances are he’ll get there eventually, and with the depth that already exists in the featherweight ranks, there is no need to hustle things at this point.

The only thing that has kept Estevam from earning more attention at the moment is the fact that he’s made just two appearances inside the Octagon since earning a contract on Season 6 of Dana White’s Contender Series.

Unbeaten in 13 starts, the 28-year-old Nova Uniao product earned a unanimous decision win over Charles Johnson in his promotional debut towards the end of 2023, though he missed weight for the contest. He then missed the entirety of 2024 before returning earlier this year to register another decision victory, getting the better of Jesus Aguilar in February.

Like so many of his teammates, Estevam is a strong grappler who does his best work on the canvas, though he’s equally content to finish with strikes or submissions. If there is a knock on the unbeaten flyweight at this point, it would be his propensity to fade as the fight progresses, as he’s dropped the third round on all three scorecards in each of his first two UFC appearances.