
The 29-year-old from Saitama is one of his country’s brightest prospects and brings a world-class amateur wrestling pedigree and a hybrid style to the Octagon.

Nakamura was a standout freestyle wrestler on the Japanese team and, after winning the u23 World Championships in 2017, was tipped for glory at the senior level and was in contention to qualify for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic Games.

When the Olympics was postponed due to the COVID-19 pandemic, Nakamura boldly opted to hang up his wrestling boots at the age of 25 to pursue mixed martial arts and chase his boyhood dream of becoming a UFC champion.

“Ever since I can remember, the only job I wanted was to be a professional fighter,” Nakamura told the UFC.

“I'm so happy that I can move people's hearts by competing and flying the flag for Japan that I even cry about it sometimes during my training.

“I believe that the Olympic challenge was good motivation, but I believe that it is my destiny and mission to compete here in the UFC and that it is a challenge given to me by God.”

Leaving wrestling, a sport he had practiced for 20 years since the age of five and had excelled at, was a surprisingly easy decision.

“I didn't think all that long about it; I had already been practicing different martial arts while I was still wrestling.”

Nakamura grew up in Saitama, 30km outside of Tokyo, and was an avid fan of the colossal PRIDE Fighting Championships, which held their famed events nearby at Saitama Super Arena.

“I grew up watching PRIDE, so it's very strange and exciting for me to be on this stage, in the world’s number one organization, where many of my predecessors who I admired have fought.”

“When I was a child, I used to watch videos of that title fight all the time to motivate me and to visualize myself winning a UFC title.

A student of the fight game, the Japanese star competed all over the world in wrestling and has recently trained in South Korea and Mongolia as he develops his ever-growing skillset.

Despite only making his MMA debut in 2021, Nakamura’s accelerated route to the upper echelons of the sport saw the UFC come calling just 12 months into his new career in 2022 to invite him to compete in the Road to UFC tournament.

Nakamura has had to wait 11 months since then to get back into the Octagon after fracturing his wrist last year.

"I opted for conservative treatment without surgery. I didn't think it would take this long at all and it was a really stressful year for me, not being able to move actively.”

Now, aiming to make up for lost time and coming back from the longest period of inactivity of his burgeoning career, the humble Japanese hope, whose English skills are also notable, is aiming to go 10-0 at the Intuit Dome on the biggest stage of his career.

As for a potential clash of sambo against wrestling, the unbeaten fighter believes that he has the edge.

Nakamura has prepared for his eagerly awaited return by training at LDH Martial Arts and retired ex-PRIDE fighter Hiroyuki Takaya’s FIGHT FARM dojo in his homeland, as well as a two-month spell at American Top Team.

As he lives out his dreams on Saturday, and bids to edge closer to a potential UFC title shot, Nakamura will do so empowered with what he holds dearly as the most cherished piece of advice that he has received.

Fellow wrestler-turned fighter Erson Yamamoto, the nephew of the late great, ex-UFC fighter and Japanese legend Kid Yamamoto - and someone who Nakamura has trained with extensively – offered four words of encouragement to his close friend.

"Live in the moment”

By doing exactly that, Nakamura believes he can win and entertain the fans in the process.

"Fans can definitely expect a finish win from me on Saturday,” he says with a smile.

"My career is still young, but I want to show everyone how much I've evolved, and I want to make everyone at home in Japan proud.”