
“Then I get immersed in this situation where it’s like, ‘this is what the life of a full-time fighter is gonna look like.’ (I learned that) I’m gonna have to juggle training with world-class athletes, fighting world-class athletes, figuring out how to take care of myself, how to cook.

“As a fighter, your time is very limited, so you’ve got to find ways to generate different sources of income and stuff like that, but I was like, ‘No, I’m all-in on MMA.’ I pushed all-in and it paid off. I got my opportunities to try to crack the lineup as a broadcaster. I get to do what I love every single day, even the times I gotta stay up super-late because I’m studying fights; I love every second of it.

What will sound odd to some is the next part.

“Maybe by year’s end I can get myself back in the rankings, and I don’t feel like the world title is out of reach,” continued Chiesa. “I’ve always said that if I never won a world championship, I thought I would look back on this as a failure, but now with all these other opportunities I get as a broadcaster, it hasn’t been for nothing, and I think that if I could crack the lineup, become a UFC commentator, I would feel just as validated for my efforts as if I won a world championship.

“Sometimes you have to — and it doesn’t mean I don’t exhibit humility in life, but sometimes I have to remind myself that I’m a bad m*****f***** and that these guys have to worry about me as well. The biggest thing was remembering who I am, what I’m about, and that I’m a very dangerous guy on any given night, as well.

“It has really unlocked my true potential in training. I’ve been training smarter, training hard, putting my feet to the fire a lot more, and the fact that I used to think this was age and that was my problem is crazy because, at 37 years old, I’m training better than I have before.”

“Every training camp, all the stresses, everything that comes with it, I have gratitude for it now; it doesn’t weigh on me anymore,” added Chiesa. “I have so much gratitude for where I’m at — the health, the ability, the mental stability within myself to continue to compete, and do what I love every single day.

“It’s a blessing, and something I will never take for granted.”