Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Madden: For Merab — this is fourth fight of the year?

Kyte: Yeah.

Madden: It has to be terrifying for some of these guys, right?

Kyte: That’s the tricky part because you never want to psyche yourself out and you’ve gotta go into these things believing “I can beat this guy.” You’ve gotta have that reasonable delusion like Cory talked about with McKenzie (Pavacich) going into their fight, and you absolutely have to think like that…

Madden: A hundred percent — it is an absolute requirement of this job, particularly at that level.

Kyte: For sure, but I would also understand the moments where you look at it and have that doubt, have that real brief pause from the delusion too.

Kyte: Yeah, it was Aldo, which is five years ago now and against a guy that was older.

Kyte: What the path to victory for each guy here?

Kyte: Your striking is always going to look better, have a greater impact when people have to be hyper-aware of getting taken down. It’s those half-seconds we talk about all the time.

Kyte: And what about the challenger?

We just talked about it, but starting slow and increasing the pace over five rounds just means that Merab is gonna be two miles ahead of you by the time this fight ends instead of one mile ahead of you.

Kyte: Right.

So how much emphasis are you putting on “we gotta switch it up” and put together all the stuff we’ve been talking about so far?

Kyte: Okay, so what’s the x-factor here?

Madden: I talked about it briefly at the start, but man, I really love rematches because the fight is gonna be different and it’s an opportunity for both fighters to make adjustments, and I’m such a fan of cerebral fighters, so for fighters to come out and present a new version of themselves in a rematch is always exciting to watch.

Yan has another opportunity here and you have a lot of film on this guy — even on this year alone it’s five rounds with Umar (Nurmagomedov), five rounds with Cory, and three rounds with O’Malley, so you have an enormous amount of footage on this guy to work from. We know what Merab is capable of and it’s still super-dangerous, but…

Kyte: There’s not a lot of surprises.

Most people at this level of the sport would say that an 8-week camp for a 5-round fight is not a lot of time.

Kyte: Yep, 35 in January.

We’ll see, but it’s something we have to pay attention to in this fight for sure.

Kyte: What’s are the curiosity points for you in this one?

Kyte: Get the hands mid-body instead of right up around your head the whole time.

Madden: Listen: we know Merab is a showman at heart. Ge loves to play to the crowd in every single fight and if you have a moment of success like that, as a fighter with these tendencies and that personality, it can bite you in the bite pretty quickly.

Yan is just a dude you don’t want to f*** around with. This is a dude you don’t want to be flexing to the crowd against. If ever there was a fight to where you go back to being no-nonsense, buttoned-up Merab again, this is it to me.

Madden: A hundred percent.

But this quiet Russian dude has one goal in mind.

Madden: To ruin everything you’ve worked for!

Madden: Right, and you can only use it this one time, so make it different.

Kyte: Yep. Time to show it. I can’t wait for this one. I’m so pumped.

Madden: Same, man. Same.