
For Yan, I’ve been a big fan for a long time and I think he’s one of the more well-rounded fighters in the UFC, in my opinion. I love his skill set. I love his Fight IQ — he definitely has the Fight IQ — and I think those are his two biggest traits.

He’s has such a great offensive and defensive arsenal in his striking, and then his scrambling ability and his offensive wrestling are really solid too. His trips are beautiful to watch. He has such a fun skill set in a division like this, but his IQ and well-rounded game stand out to me the most.

Kyte: That’s the tricky part because you never want to psyche yourself out and you’ve gotta go into these things believing “I can beat this guy.” You’ve gotta have that reasonable delusion like Cory talked about with McKenzie (Pavacich) going into their fight, and you absolutely have to think like that…

With Yan, when you mention the IQ, I agree wholeheartedly. I think more than most people, he maps out his fights really well, and we see that where the first round is essentially a throwaway — he loses the first round just about every time, but it’s with reason, it’s with purpose.

How do you contextualize something like that for people? There are going to be people where this is their first time seeing Petr Yan, watching him fight, so as a coach, how do you assess that from a strategic standpoint and explain it to people?

I want to be clear: I don’t think he’s intentionally losing rounds, but he’s not worried about losing the round either because he knows what he’s taking away from it.

Madden: That’s a really good way of putting it: he knows what he’s capable of in the later rounds.

Look, I wouldn’t — and this is something I have a bone to pick with him about is that he’ll still do it in 3-round fights, and that as a coach would make me nervous.

Madden: They have to. They have to sell out against it. And if you have the self-belief in a small level-change feint and then throwing two punches as hard as you can because Yan isn’t going to take you down and hold you down, man, you’d be surprised at the results you could get, even if the technique isn’t perfect.

I hate saying that being a striking coach, but that’s the reality of this matchup is that he has that advantage already embedded in Yan’s head and he can use that to his advantage to create opportunities with the striking.

Madden: What I would like to see with Yan is for him to take some calculated risks to win this fight.

But again, I need to see Yan take some calculated risks in this fight. The worst thing that could happen is that this fight finishes, it’s 25 minutes again and it’s the same result as the first time around. Part of it might not be his fault because Merab might just be that good, but you have to try something new this go-round in order to get a different result.

I think he’s gotta be on the gas a little bit sooner and I think he’s gotta take some risks in this fight.

Madden: You should know his game pretty intimately now. Can you stop it? That’s a different story, and I get it, but there is a ton of footage out there, you have a good team around you, so you should be able to game plan for this, and with someone as disciplined and experienced as Yan, you would hope he’d be up to task to execute that game plan.

So for me the x-factor is the rematch for Yan and the footage he can prepare with. And for Merab, we touched on this briefly too, but man — fighting four times in a year, title fights, with the last one being in early October is crazy.

Kyte: He’s gone January to June, and then June to October, and even that is quicker than we even really talked about at the time. It feels different because it’s two very different seasons — start of summer and the into late fall — but that was four months, which isn’t long, and now he’s looking to do two months here for his fourth title fight of the year.

If his body is ever going to be less than it normally is, it’s going to be this fight, so is there a way to exploit that beyond what we talked about earlier of going forward, being first, and making him work more?

Madden: For Yan I have a specific one related to his defense. He cycles through different defenses with his strikes, but his high guard is not really conducive to good wrestling defense, and someone like Merab is gonna take advantage of that.

So a small thing I’m going to be paying attention to is whether he’s adjusted his hand positioning at all to accommodate for being able to dig underhooks on the takedown and having that first line of defense available.

And then for Merab, this is interesting because he knocked Cory down and was close to finishing him with strikes, and we’ve seen Merab act on stuff like this in the past, so will this end up putting him in trouble against a good striker like Yan? It comes down to the Fight IQ stuff but knocking down and almost putting away someone as good as Cory on the feet could end up hurting you if you’re not careful with it.