On Saturday, February 8, the UFC returns to Qudos Bank Arena in Sydney, Australia for the second pay-per-view event of the year.

Headlined by a pair of outstanding championship matchups, UFC 312 marks the promotion’s seventh trip to the New South Wales metropolis and the 19th time the Octagon has made the trip down under.

UFC 311 REWIND: Prelim Results | Main Card Results | Official Scorecards

Birth of the Flyweight Division (UFC on FX 2 — March 2, 2012)

FOLLOW @UFCNEWS: On Facebook | On Instagram | On X

Generally speaking, no one tends to look to the heavyweight division for ultra-competitive, captivating five-round fights.

WATCH: One Hour Of The Greatest UFC Submissions

11 Fights, 11 Finishes (UFC Fight Night 55 — November 7, 2014)

For seven years and nine months, this event stood as the one and only UFC event where every fight ended in a finish.

READ: Charles Oliveira Talks Potential Matchups, Title Aspirations

The mark was eventually matched on August 6, 2022 when all 10 fights at UFC Fight Night: Santos vs Hill produced three submissions and seven stoppages.

There have only been a handful of “where were you when…” moments in UFC history and this is one of them.

But that’s exactly what happened.

Every installment of The 10 that gets produced on this site features one entry that falls into the “One for Me” category — a choice that may not make sense or be the most anticipated selection of everyone else, but makes the list because, well, because I’m the one making the list.

READ: The Bigger Picture After UFC 311

Israel Adesanya Unifies Middleweight Titles (UFC 243 — October 5, 2019)

UFC SAUDI ARABIA: Adesanya Headlines Against Imavov, View The Full Fight Card

If any of my friends ever ask me what it is about MMA that I love so much that I’m willing to commit the vast majority of my Saturdays and countless hours each week to it, I’m just going to sit them down, cue up this fight, and walk away.

For me, this was the equivalent of Michael Jordan and Kobe Bryant playing one-on-one in their primes — two masters going move-for-move, attack-and-defend, counter-and-adjust for five rounds — and it was absolutely breathtaking.

READ: Two Title Fights Headline UFC's Return To Sydney

This was a wildly entertaining scrap courtesy of two all-action standouts in one of the most competitive and dynamic divisions in the sport, and a fitting close to our collection of must-see moments that took place in Australia.