
As we ready to see Zhang Weili defend her strawweight title against Tatiana Suarez, and middleweight champ Dricus du Plessis run it back with former titleholder Sean Strickland, it feels like a good time to comb through the archives and highlight some of the must-see moments to have taken place in Australia over the years.

Highlight reel knockouts? Absolutely, and both Hunt and Silva had delivered their fair share of those over the years, so when they paired off in Brisbane at the start of December, that’s how just about everyone saw the fight ending: with one man standing triumphant over the other in the center of the Octagon.

Instead, the two perennial contenders smashed one another with massive shots and never stopped battling until the final horn sounded, resulting in the extremely rare heavyweight main event that ended in a majority draw. One judge scored the fight for Hunt, three rounds to two, while the other two had the bout even, with Silva winning three rounds, but Hunt garnering a 10-8 score in the final stanza.

The mark was eventually matched on August 6, 2022 when all 10 fights at UFC Fight Night: Santos vs Hill produced three submissions and seven stoppages.

Rousey entered as a dominant force; fired up and feisty all week in the lead to the contest, the bantamweight champion was reaching a new level of global stardom and she marched into the Octagon with a perfect 12-0 record. A multiple-time world champion in boxing and a solid kickboxer, Holm had, if we’re being honest, kind of underwhelmed in her first two UFC outings, earning a split decision win over Raquel Pennington before scoring a unanimous decision victory over Marion Reneau in a pair of bouts that didn’t exactly leave you thinking “this is the person that is going to unseat Ronda Rousey and do it handily.”

Holm had the perfect approach, using her footwork, movement, and striking prowess to take advantage of Rousey’s aggressiveness and blast her with big shots. Each time the champion couldn’t execute the way she intended, she grew more visibly frustrated; you could feel the anger radiating off her when she rushed Holm and was treated like a charging bull by the more savvy matador.

Rousey managed to make her way to the second round, but less than a minute in, Holm connected with a head kick that put the champion on the canvas, and the follow-up shots brought the Rousey Era to a close. Holm burst into tears and circled the Octagon in shocked delight. Rousey would only fight once more.