Many fighters have decided to move down in weight as they get older to compete against a new batch of contenders, Jose Aldo and Frankie Edgar being prime examples, but very few fighters decide to reestablish themselves in a heavier weight division midway through their careers.

While there are examples of fighters who’ve made history moving up in weight to claim a belt in a second weight division including Amanda Nunes, Conor McGregor, Daniel Cormier, Georges St-Pierre, Henry Cejudo and Jon Jones, most didn’t make the heavier weight division their long-term home, and often had shorter stints before retiring or moving on to other challenges.

After Adesanya took back his title in the immediate rematch, Pereira decided to take his talents from middleweight to light heavyweight, a 20-pound weight difference. While Pereira was very large for the middleweight division, it was intriguing to see how he’d fare against much larger opposition. In his first fight in his new division, Pereira earned a hard-fought victory over former 205-pound champion Jan Błachowicz, granting “Poatan” a title shot in just his second fight at light heavyweight. If Pereira wasn’t a superstar yet, he soon would be.

At UFC 295, Pereira took out former champion Jiri Prochazka late in the second round to become light heavyweight champion and add himself to the short list of fighters to win a title in two weight divisions. Five months later, Pereira headlined UFC’s historic UFC 300 card against Jamahal Hill, in which he maximized the spotlight by finishing Hill, yet another former champion, spectacularly in the first.

At UFC 307, Pereira defended his belt for the third time in seven months against Khalil Rountree Jr. in Salt Lake City. After losing his middleweight title, Pereira won five straight, captured the light heavyweight title and defended it three times. He now sits as the No. 1 ranked contender after losing his title to Magomed Ankalaev at UFC 313.

At UFC 225, Oliveira submitted Clay Guida via guillotine choke in the first round. While it may seem insignificant since “Do Bronxs” has finished 31 of his 34 victories as a pro, it kickstarted an 11-fight win streak that will go down as one of the greatest title runs in UFC history.

After winning eight straight, including victories over Tony Ferguson, Kevin Lee and Jim Miller, Oliveira earned a spot in UFC 262’s main event alongside Michael Chandler for the vacant lightweight title. After losing the first round, Oliveira rallied swiftly, stopping Chandler just 19 seconds into the second round to become the undisputed champion.

Sean Strickland has fought in the UFC for so long that many people don’t realize he spent the majority of his UFC career in the welterweight division, fighting the likes of former 170-pound champion Kamaru Usman.

While never quite in the title picture at 170 pounds, Strickland’s impressive run of eight wins in his first 10 middleweight fights, including victories over Brendan Allen, Jack Hermansson and Nassourdine Imavov, earned him a much-deserved shot at gold against then-titleholder Adesanya. Strickland opened as a massive +490 underdog to Adesanya’s -675, but proved every doubter wrong with a dominant unanimous decision victory.

Strickland has lost two of his last three, with both losses coming to the current middleweight champion Dricus du Plessis. As the No. 2 ranked contender, a standout performance against anyone in the Top 5, especially if the title changes hands in August, could earn Strickland another shot to reclaim the belt.

But after suffering defeat to McGregor in 2014, Poirier decided to move back up to 155 pounds. He made an immediate impact on the lightweight division, earning back-to-back Performance of the Night bonuses with knockout victories over Diego Ferreira and Yancy Medeiros.

While he may have never won the undisputed lightweight title, Poirier became widely recognized as one of the most entertaining fighters on the planet across all weight divisions. Between 2017 and 2019, Poirier picked up four straight wins and bonuses, finishing Anthony Pettis, Justin Gaethje and Eddie Alvarez, and earning interim lightweight gold against Holloway.

Poirier’s lightweight run also includes two redemptive victories over McGregor, a Fight of the Night-earning performance against Michael Chandler and a knockout over Benoît Saint Denis which earned him a title fight against current lightweight champion Islam Makhachev. Poirier is now just months away from his final fight inside the Octagon: a main event matchup with BMF champion Max Holloway at UFC 318.

Five fights in the UFC welterweight division was all fan-favorite Robert Whittaker needed to see before making his move up to middleweight in 2014.

Although Whittaker lost his belt to Adesanya in 2019, he has continued to establish himself as one of the top contenders in the division, with key victories over Jared Cannonier, Marvin Vettori, and Paulo Costa. Whittaker’s lost just three times in 17 fights at middleweight with all three of those losses coming to a current or former champion (Adesanya x2, Du Plessis).

In June, Whittaker stunned Kingdom Arena in the UFC’s first-ever trip to Saudi Arabia, earning a Performance of the Night bonus for his first-round knockout over one of the middleweight division’s hottest prospects, Ikram Aliskerov. After suffering defeat to the next middleweight title challenger Khamzat Chimaev at UFC 308, Whittaker makes his return to the Octagon on July 26 against surging contender Reinier de Ridder.

After defending his featherweight title with an emphatic knockout victory over Max Holloway, Ilia Topuria decided to vacate his belt to set his sights on lightweight gold. With lightweight champion Islam Makhachev making a similar jump up to welterweight, it's opened the door for Topuria to fight for the vacant title against Charles Oliveira at UFC 317.

This will be Topuria's second fight at 155 pounds in his UFC career, his first being a thunderous knockout of Jai Herbert in 2022. If he can close out International Fight Week with a victory over Oliveira, there's a strong argument that he could be on the greatest three-fight streak in UFC history having finished both Alexander Volkanovski and Holloway in his last two bouts.