UFC returns to the APEX with a high-stakes flyweight main event featuring No. 6 ranked contender Tatsuro Taira facing undefeated rising star HyunSung Park. In the co-main, exciting lightweights Mateusz Rębecki and Chris Duncan collide in a bout promising nonstop action.

Rebecki came out charging forward full of energy as always, getting the better of the exchanges in the opening round. But Duncan held steady, busted him open with a step-in elbow in the second, and seemed to have a little bit more left in the tank during the exhausted and bloody final five minutes of the bout.

The judges were tasked with determining the victor and when their scores were collected and tallied, it was the Scotsman Duncan that came out ahead, earning his second win of the year and third straight win overall. “The Problem” is now 5-1 inside the Octagon and should garner another step up in competition after this absolute war with Rebecki in Sin City.

Ribovics was the aggressor for much of the fight, moving forward and cutting off the cage to keep Brener in range and in his crosshairs, repeatedly battering him with multiple shots in combination while mixing in sharp kicks and the occasional knee. The two men fought like they made a pact to chase a Fight of the Night bonus, both throwing at a high rate and taking their fair share of damage, with the Argentine having a little more meaningful success over the three-round battle.

When the final horn sounded and the scorecards were totalled, it was Ribovics that came out ahead. “El Gringo” has firmly established himself as one of the most consistent all-action fighters in the division, and made sure to close out a special night for the Argentinians on the roster by joining Vallejos in the winner’s circle.

The all-time leader in welterweight wins was down on the scorecards and spent much of the second round on his back, but once Magny was able to work back to his feet, he went on the offensive. A series of heavy knees to the head seemed to sway things, allowing the Colorado native to drag dos Santos to the deck, where he climbed into back mount and pounded out the finish.

Magny has made a career out of delivering performances like this one. He snapped a two-fight skid with the stoppage victory, while picking up his 23rd UFC win and passing more than seven hours of cage time in his career.

Argentinian prospect Kevin Vallejos kicked off the main card with a second straight UFC victory, out-working fellow Dana White’s Contender Series graduate Danny Silva over three rounds.