
"I think people kind of bask in their victories and they want to take a little time, because that feeling of being a winner is good, so it’s definitely scary for people to just hop right back in after getting a win. But I look at it as I want to have that momentum, and the more often you fight, the faster you get pushed to the top, so it’s definitely a good feeling to have a quick turnaround now.”

The 28-year-old lightweight, who carries a 10-1 record and eight-fight winning streak into this weekend’s event at the UFC APEX, wasn’t necessarily pleased with how he performed against Hubbard in Mexico City, where he came out on the happy side of a debated split decision verdict, though there were positive lessons to be taken away from the grimy, hard-fought battle.

“Did I like the way we won? No, but we got the victory doing the most we could, but the least that I’ve ever done.”

“I think that’s the biggest thing I’m taking from it is that sometimes you’ve got to bite down on that mouthpiece and go. It can’t always be finesse, which is what it was at my last gym. It was ‘pick your shots,’ and more of an IQ thing, whereas here, there is definitely an IQ component, but it’s more like, ‘Let’s get after it.’”

Change is often difficult, and the challenges can be ramped up when one parts ways with a group they’ve worked with for an extended period of time.

Routines are built, approaches and theories are committed to memory, and taking in and adapting an entirely new set of foundational elements and ideas is a process that can take months or years to get comfortable with, if it takes at all.

“If I’m in a room, I’m gonna learn who works and who the best in the room is. Once I identify who is the best in the room, who are they working with? Who are they talking to? What coaches do they have in their ear? What is their strength and conditioning like?

“I love it because — how can I explain it? It’s definitely different because I grew up at Factory X, with that approach, but now I’m learning a whole different approach to the game that I hadn’t ever looked into before.”

“The goal at the beginning of this year was to go 3-0, so we move to 2-0 this week, and we go get at least one, and then we set up a Top 15, Top 10 run for 2026; that’s the way to play it,” said the confident lightweight.

“Maybe if we get something clipped in the meantime, they might even jump me up!” he added with a laugh. “You’ve gotta be ready for short notice in this game because that’s how a lot of opportunities are coming these days.”

“Calm, cool, collected, and violent; that’s what I’m planning, for sure,” he offered as a forecast for what it come.

“I’m comfortable now,” he added, grinning. “These first two fights, I haven’t been comfortable, for whatever reasons, but they shouldn’t have let me get comfortable. And I’m definitely comfortable now.”