
Following a preliminary card where all seven bouts ended inside the distance only two ventured beyond the opening stanza, the action remained intense and exhilarating once it shifted to the main card. After the opening bout produced a fun 15 minutes of action, capped by Frenchman William Gomis getting back into the win column, the finishes started flowing once again.

Unbeaten French newcomer Axel Sola scored a third-round stoppage win over Rhys McKee in an entertaining back-and-forth battle before former Cage Warriors champs Mason Jones and Modestas Bukauskas earned consecutive wins as a result of punishing elbows from top position. To close out the show local favorite Benoit Saint Denis claimed a dominant second-round submission win over Mauricio Ruffy in the co-main event, garnering his second straight finish this year, with Paris-based middleweight Nassourdine Imavov wrapping up the night with a unanimous decision win over Caio Borralho.

After opening the year with a second-round knockout win over Israel Adesanya handing Borralho his first UFC loss establishes Imavov as the clubhouse leader in the chase to be the first to challenge new champ Khamzat Chimaev for the middleweight strap. He’s unbeaten since connecting with head coach Nicholas Ott and is now 3-0 while fighting on home soil in the UFC.

From the outset, the aggressive French lightweight took the fight to Ruffy, using his pressure and well-rounded skill set to take the Fighting Nerd out of his game and dominate the action. Midway through the second, Saint Denis dragged Ruffy to the canvas again, climbing onto his back, looking for a choke. While the Brazilian tucked his chin, the squeeze was just too much, and Ruffy was forced to tap.

Just a clinical effort from the 29-year-old “God of War,” who basked in the adulation of the crowd following the contest. That’s now back-to-back submission wins this year for Saint Denis, who defends both his home soil and his place in the rankings in scoring a tremendous victory in the penultimate bout of the night.

Bukauskas got the better of things in space throughout, but was stuck in the clinch with Craig for portions, slowing the action. After the Scotsman unsuccessfully tried to jump guard, Bukauskas looked to rain down blows from top position, connecting with a thunderous elbow that put Craig out just before the horn to signal the end of the opening frame.

This was a hellacious finish for “The Baltic Gladiator,” who advanced to 6-1 since returning to the UFC with his third win of the year. The 31-year-old was in tremendous shape and has clearly benefited from training alongside heavyweight champ Tom Aspinall, and called for a chance to fight into the Top 15 next.

Following the contest, Craig laid down his gloves in the center of the Octagon and announced his retirement from mixed martial arts. The entertaining 37-year-old departs with a 17-10-1 record with one no contest, including wins over light heavyweight champ Magomed Ankalaev and former titleholder Jamahal Hill.

Oki cracked Jones and had him teetering on the brink of getting stopped, but the Welsh standout got back to his feet, cleared the cobwebs, and took the fight to the Dana White’s Contender Series grad from there. After controlling the final half of the opening stanza, Jones dominated in the second, tossing Oki to the canvas with a beautiful, high amplitude throw before climbing into mount and smashing out the stoppage win.

That’s now consecutive victories since returning to the UFC fold for Jones, who out-hustled Jeremy Stephens in Des Moines earlier this following a quality four-fight run back under the Cage Warriors banner. Still only 30 years old and now riding a six-fight winning streak, we just might be primed to see the best Jones has to offer inside the Octagon.

The newcomer Sola started out exceptionally well, using his speed and karate stance to connect clean on the Irishman. But once McKee settled into the contest, he began to have his own success, turning this into a fun back-and-forth. Two minutes into the third, Sola blasted “Skeletor” with a left hook to the midsection that folded him over, with the follow-up blows prompting the stoppage.

Sola took this fight on short notice as he was in the midst of working his way down to lightweight, and now he’s got a UFC stoppage victory at the top of his record. Unbeaten in 13 professional bouts and riding a four-fight winning streak, the Nice resident is definitely someone to keep tabs on going forward.

“Jaguar” was the faster, sharper of the two in the striking department, as he used long range weapons to attack the body, mixing in knees to the midsection whenever they clinched. Just when it seemed like Gomis was cruising to victory, Ruchala wobbled him with a high kick in the third, shifting the momentum in his favor before the French favorite worked to clinch and grind out the final minute.

Tasked with determining a victor for the first time all evening, the judges scored the fight in favor of Gomis, who advanced to 5-1 in the UFC with the victory. It’s seldom easy for the 28-year-old, but it’s a very good win over a European standout and gets things moving in the right direction again after a split decision loss last time out.