Through the first few weeks of Season 8 of Dana White’s Contender Series, it was apparent that the graduating class of 2024 had the potential to be among the best produced by the annual talent search series.

“I thought after the Contender Series, I would get back to Perth and really celebrate, but there was none of that; it was straight into a camp. I think Vegas, my debut, was kind of a celebration for both of those moments, and at the time, I just felt more like ‘this is where I belong’ and more complete, in a sense; ‘now I’m doing what I set out to do.’

“It actually felt like more of a relief,” he added. “Now it’s fun, because I’ve done it. Win, lose, or draw, I’m competing against the best guys in the world like I set out to do the whole time.”

“This year, I’ve spent the entire year doing rehab. I’ve not cut any corners. I do the best I can to keep my body (in good shape) and not get injured, and then something happens and, and, and…”

He trailed off and took a breath.

“It’s quite f***ing depressing, bro, because you put everything into it and your body goes ‘F*** you!’ anyway,” he added, laughing at the ridiculous sounding statement that feels like an accurate representation of how things have gone for him of late. “It’s like you have a brand new car — there’s fuel in it, it’s fully serviced, and you go to start it, and it says, ‘F*** you!’ and breaks down.”

“As much as I want to be positive, when something like that happens, it affects you mentally.”

What adds to the frustration are the frequent reminders of just how short the attention spans and memories of MMA fans can be that pop up in his messages on a regular basis.

“People message me on social media and say, ‘Can’t wait for your debut!’” he said, shaking his head. “The Contender Series was still going on, and I debuted. I think I was the first guy from that season to debut, and it’s not talked about; no one seems to remember it.

“I get it all the time, and it annoys me a lot, but it’s been over a year since I fought, so it makes sense,” added Haddon. “If you don’t fight in six months, you don’t exist; people have got goldfish memories.”

While having a goldfish memory was something Ted Lasso encouraged the members of Richmond FC to have early in his tenure with the squad, fading from memory is not something a fighter ever wants to do, especially not in as competitive and robust a division as bantamweight.

“I’m grateful that they thought this made sense and that they think I’m worthy enough to face him, and grateful that I actually get to fight this year,” he said of landing the short-notice opportunity and chance to share the Octagon with one of the hottest fighters on the roster.

“That’s the only thing I can control, and with all the other stuff, I’m not gonna pay attention to what people are saying on Reddit and social media because these guys are wrong most of the time. I know what I’m worth, I know what I can do, and I’m a hidden gem.”

Provided things go as planned this weekend, that designation will no longer apply to Haddon come Sunday morning.

“After this fight, people will know who I am, regardless of the outcome,” he said with a smile. “Obviously, I’m confident going in there, but I know it’s gonna be a helluva fight, and both our stocks are gonna rise after this fight.

“People have seen a little bit of me, but there are still so many tools that I haven’t shown, that people don’t know about; tools that I haven’t shown in my pro or amateur career. There are tools I have that I haven’t pulled out, and I will only pull them out when I need them, and this fight, I’ll probably need them.”