
“I said before that fight that the only way I would be happy with an outcome of that fight was if I regained all the momentum that I'd lost in the Chepe Mariscal fight. And I think people universally agreed that I had done that. So now we're here to keep going forward.”

“I’ve been pretty good my whole career. I've just taken things in my stride. So as soon as the surgeon told me that my elbow was going to make a full recovery, then every day, I was just taking it in my stride and keeping going.”

“I had a great performance against Herbert, but (Dan) Hooker probably had a better performance, and Kai Kara-France probably had a better performance, and then obviously the main event fights. Whereas with this card, I've got a chance to step into the hole that is there from those guys not being on the card, fill that void and be the next star coming out of this region. So that's what I want to do.

“I want to stamp myself as one of those household names, the next guy who's here and going to be a contender.

“I know we have a joke about me getting rid of the mullet, but if the mullet could symbolize anything for me, it's that I'm not a new kid on the block enjoying the ride anymore. I'm here to be a serious contender.”

“We were all sort of young, early 20s, and we're all training together at Resilience, all at the same gym.

"Just to give people an idea, I used to spar Jake and Jimmy – welterweights and light heavyweights – just because of the lack of numbers back in the day, whereas now I don't do a round with anyone over lightweight, really.

“So, to be on the card with them is pretty special, because we've come up through it together. And, yeah, it's exciting to fight anytime you fight in Australia.”

“So, 2025 for me, we're going to get a win here, then we will be back up in either June or July in Vegas, maybe International Fight Week, on the card there, (then) finish the year with a resounding win inside the Top 10. And then, like I said, hopefully we can get the Victorian government to play ball with the UFC, and we can come back to Rod Laver Arena in Melbourne.”