We continue our year-end tour of the best performances inside the Octagon by recognizing the athletes that delivered the knockouts that resonated the most in 2025.

Let’s be honest with each other for a moment: we all love seeing a stunning knockout. It’s honestly the best way a fight could play out in terms of sheer, unilateral satisfaction amongst the fan base. Sure, a competitive scrap is outstanding and a slick submission like the ones we recognized yesterday is terrific, but there is nothing that sends a lightning bolt of excitement through your being than the moment when a finishing blow lands true and the fight you were watching just instantly ends.

Here are the ones we liked the most from the past year.

Here’s a little peak behind the voting curtain for you: this knockout didn’t receive the most first-place votes amongst this group; it was one of four fights that earned a single first-place nod, while the silver medalist scored three votes for top spot. Five folks had it as the second-best knockout of the year though, which then carried it to the top of the heap.

This was just too clean.

The answer: they transferred quite well, thank you very much

“How good is that dude?” Joe Rogan asked on the broadcast, answering the question in unison with DC, both rightfully singing the 2-division champion’s praises. In a different year, this takes home top honors, but this year, it didn’t even make the podium.

What a year it has been!

When putting together our look at the newcomers that stole the show in 2025 earlier this awards season, I mentioned that what carried Salkilld from outside of the Top 5 at the midway point of the year to the top of the heap was his performance against Nasrat Haqparast at UFC 321 in Abu Dhabi. Well, that performance also landed the Perth man a place in the Top 5 knockouts of the year too.

Not bad, rook!

Shin. Temple. Goodnight.

While he had thrown kicks throughout the fight, they were front kicks or rear-leg round kicks to the body and lead leg. And then, without any setup or any tell, Salkilld went high and Haqparast went down like someone had just flipped off his power switch, which, you know, is pretty much what happened.

Three wins, two finishes, top newcomer and a Top 5 Knockout of the Year? Quill had quite the debut campaign, and like everyone else, I can’t wait to see what he does for an encore in 2026.