
After Jhonata Diniz and Alvin Hines opened the show with a competitive heavyweight battle, Jacobe Smith snatched up his second win of the year, finishing veteran Niko Price, which was followed by Terrance McKinney needing just 55 seconds to submit Viacheslav Borshchev. Tracy Cortez got herself back into the win column with a dominant decision win over Viviane Araujo, with Jose Miguel Delgado adding to his Rookie of the Year case with a 20-second stoppage win over previously unbeaten Hyder Amil before Gregory Rodrigues closed out the slate with an hellacious knockout win over Jack Hermansson.

The veteran middleweights spent the opening stages of the round feeling each other out and trading individual shots, with Rodrigues getting the better of things. Late in the round, “Robocop” drew Hermansson into an exchange, landing a left hook in the fray that put his Swedish foe out on his feet, sending him crashing backwards to the canvas.

This was a massive finish and rebound win for Rodrigues, who started well, but ultimately suffered a fourth-round stoppage loss to Jared Cannonier in February. The 33-year-old Brazilian is now 4-1 over his last five bouts, and could very well find herself with a number next to her name when the rankings update.

McKinney is now 2-0 since relocating to Orlando, Florida to train under Julian Williams with the Fusion X-Cel team, showing greater patience and the same keen finishing instincts he’s displayed throughout his career. Now 4-1 over his last five fights, the 30-year-old could be finding the consistency that eluded him earlier in his career.

A three-time All-American at Oklahoma State, Smith punished Price in the first, putting the wild and reckless Floridian on shaky footing several times while also controlling the action on the canvas. The pace slowed as the fight progressed, but Smith remained in complete control, patiently working to the back, where he quickly sunk in the fight-ending choke.

A member of last year’s DWCS graduating class, the Fortis MMA product is now 11-0 in his pro career, with all but two of those victories coming inside the distance. Welterweight is brimming with talent, but Smith is clearly someone to keep close tabs on as he continues working his way forward in the 170-pound weight class.

The Brazilian took a minute to settle into the fight, allowing Hines to land a few good shots early, but once he found a rhythm, Diniz started doing damage. He battered Hines in the back half of the first and much of the second, before fatigue began to set in, allowing the debutant to have a little more success in the final frame.

This was a necessary bounce-back victory for the 34-year-old Diniz, who was handed his first professional setback last time out. With the win, the Dana White’s Contender Series grad advanced to 9-1 overall, while Hines gave a good account of himself while suffering his first career loss.