Marcus Buchecha is the most decorated Brazilian jiu jitsu competitor of all time; a 13-time world champion in the gi, as well as a two-time world champion in no-gi with multiple wins in the Pan-Am Championships and ADCC Submission Fighting World Championship as well.

He’s a fourth-degree black belt under Rodrigo Cavaca who closed out his career on the mats with well over 100 career wins and victories over many of the biggest names to compete over the last decade plus.

But this week, he’s a newcomer, set to make his first appearance inside the UFC Octagon in an intriguing matchup against Martin Buday on Saturday evening at Etihad Arena.

“I feel like a white belt, starting at the beginning,” Buchecha said on Tuesday from his hotel room in Abu Dhabi. “I’ve got a couple (promotions) already in my MMA career, but I’m far away from being a real MMA black belt, but I’m enjoying the ride so much.”

“Demian Maia, for sure, number one,” he said when asked which athletes he’s looked at for inspiration as he’s embarked on this new adventure, quickly citing the highly respected two-time title challenger. “Gilbert Burns, Charles “Do Bronxs,” Rodolfo Vieira — all these guys that I watched doing jiu jitsu and they did the transition so well to MMA.

“We have, of course, Fabricio Werdum, who won pretty much everything in jiu jitsu and was UFC world champ, so I always watch these guys, and now I’m following in their steps. It’s been great to now follow in their steps and having them support me, too. I got messages from all of them, support from them, and it’s amazing.

“(Alexandre) Pantoja uses his jiu jitsu well, as well; that’s my training partner, too,” he added, making sure to shout out the UFC flyweight champion. “I watch all these guys and try to do the same as they’re doing inside the Octagon.”

But, as he said, MMA is a different sport than jiu jitsu, and there have been plenty of world champions that faltered upon making their way into the Octagon, which is why Saturday’s matchup with Buday feels like such a perfect introductory assignment for Buchecha.

A member of the Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) Class of ’21, the 33-year-old Buday is a behemoth of a man, standing six-foot-four and needing to cut down to make the heavyweight limit. He’s also been an effective and successful competitor since graduating tothe UFC roster, posting a 6-1 record through his first seven appearances.

“Martin is a really experienced fighter; he has seven fights already in the UFC, six wins,” began Buchecha, offering his thoughts on the hulking Slovakian. “I watched all of his fights, I know how he uses his game.

“He’s a great opponent, really experienced — he’s used to fighting three rounds — but to be honest with you, when my manager told me ‘You’re gonna fight in the UFC,’ it didn’t really matter the opponent because that was a dream come true,” he continued, a smile stretching across his face. “When he gave me the name, I said, ‘Let’s do it!’ He’s an experienced fighter, so let’s do it.