
“I told everyone it’s a tough fight. We're talking about someone who is tough and has experience. She's got 10 years on me,” she said.

“I could see from her fight that she is someone that doesn't have quit in her. You can see someone that gets a flash knockdown, and she comes back, and she gets up back to win the fight. I have that characteristic, so you’ll see two people that just really want it.

“I was supposed to fight in November, but obviously the fight fell through. But it just gave me time for it to prepare. I’m happy,” she explained.

“I'm ready for it, very excited, and just in good spirits for this one. One more win.”

“It’s obviously tough, because I found out about a week before the fight was supposed to happen that the fight fell through. So you kinda get disappointed, because you’re ready to fight,” she explained.

“At that moment, I had to take a week off. You need to take a week off, otherwise it’ll be too hard on the body. So you have to take a week off, and then have a full camp of six weeks. Everything went fine, camp was complete, and we’re ready to go.”

“Also, Vegas is kind of my vibe. I love seeing people. I love being around people, too. And having the infrastructure, and everybody from the PI, the help they have here from the UFC, it all contributes. So it’s been very good for me, and great for my career.”

“I am an athlete that wants to get better. I am someone that's always trying to evolve. Someone who’s trying to improve their game,” she said.

“The ground game is something I can do. It is my bread and butter. You've seen me do it before. It is my forté. But I’ve tried improving that game too.

“I have improved my striking, as well. That's something I always tried to improve. There are many areas in which I got better, and I hope that you will see that.”

“I think that on April 11, I know there's a card in Miami. I would love to be on that card. It’s a city I’ve never fought in. There's a name that I could be calling out, as well. So next year I want to get that fight, I want to get that win, and I could be fighting in the top 10, top seven, perhaps this next year.”

“So I don't know exactly how I'm going to guarantee the victory – the fight’s going to tell that. But one thing I can guarantee you guys – there will be a post-win dance!”