
Santos was originally set to follow up her victory over Lisboa with a bout against Darya Zheleznyakova on November 8. Then, when the Russian athlete was forced off the card, Croden agreed to step in on short notice.

The bout was then rescheduled to December 13, and now, after a stop-start build-up, Santos finally gets to step into the Octagon at the UFC’s final event of the year.

Receiving the news of the bout’s postponement so close to the fight was a difficult situation to deal with, and forced Santos to stop and take a reset before launching into a six-week mini-camp to recalibrate things for this weekend’s rearranged date.

Fortunately for Santos, she is part of one of the most respected MMA gyms in the world. The Sao Paulo native made the decision to move to Las Vegas to be a part of the city’s Syndicate MMA team on a full-time basis. Being in the city also puts her in the perfect spot to take advantage of all the facilities the UFC has to offer athletes via the UFC Performance Institute. It’s a move Santos said has already made a huge difference.

“I love being at Syndicate,” Santos enthused.

“It’s actually been selected as one of the best gyms of the year. Same thing for (head coach) John (Wood), one of the best coaches of the year. You have a former champion in Merab. I love being around those people. I think it’s been very good for me.

With all the pieces in place, Santos plans on making the most of everything at her disposal to take her game to the highest level possible. And her constant desire for improvement will ensure that she’s always chasing the next incremental gain in her technique, whether it’s on the ground or in the stand-up

That evolution will get its latest showcase on Saturday night when Santos faces Croden in a women’s bantamweight matchup on the preliminary card of UFC Fight Night: Royval vs Kape at the UFC APEX.

For the 25-year-old, it’s the latest chance to test out what she’s learned in the gym as she looks to put plans in place for a big year in 2026.

“I want to evolve, I want to be active, and I want to have more opportunity. So I want to fight as soon as possible (in 2026),” she said.

To make that dream a reality, Santos knows she needs to deliver an eye-catching performance against Croden this weekend. And the judo black belt plans on doing exactly that at the UFC APEX on Saturday night, though she admitted she couldn’t accurately predict how she’ll get the job done until it actually happens.

“One thing I can never predict is actually how a fight is going to be won. One punch can change the fight and change things,” she said.