Following an all-action preliminary card slate at Bridgestone Arena, the main card delivered non-stop action as well, culminating with another knockout win by Derrick Lewis.

The first three fights all ended inside the distance, with Tuco Tokkos submitting Junior Tafa, Vitor Petrino doing the same to Austen Lane, and Morgan Charrière spoiling the homecoming of Tennessee native Nate Landwehr. From there, Steve Garcia and Gabriel Bonfim added to their winning streaks with decision wins over Calvin Kattar and Stephen Thompson respectively, before “The Black Beast” blew through Tallison Teixeira in a chaotic 35-second main event.

The heavyweight came out swinging, and Teixeira actually clipped Lewis in the early chaos, backing up the Houston native. But as the Brazilian came forward, Lewis fired off a left hand that rocked his sophomore opponent and sent him falling to the canvas. From there, Lewis swarmed, rifling off follow-up blows that forced referee Jason Herzog to step in and stop the action.

That’s now consecutive Brazilian prospects dispatched by “The Black Beast,” who remains one of the most dangerous, consistently entertaining fighters in the entire UFC. Back working with Kru Bob Perez and in the best shape of his career, might we see one final push towards the title from everyone’s favorite knockout artist?

The Dana White’s Contender Series grad was a little quicker, a little more active throughout, mixing things up more than the former title challenger. Both men had moments where they got clipped on the feet, but it was the all-around approach that gave Bonfim the edge, as he ran level with “Wonderboy” while standing and did well to sprinkle in effective grappling along the way.

The fans in Smashville were not happy with the decision, but Bonfim added to his win total nonetheless. He’s now earned three straight wins and should find himself occupying a place in the rankings after getting the better of the 42-year-old veteran on Saturday.

“Mean Machine” was non-stop forward motion from the jump in this one, encroaching on Kattar’s space and constantly pawing at him with steady output. At no point did Garcia allow the veteran featherweight to get into the fight, staying in his face and dropping him early in the third before continuing to run away with things down the stretch.

The 33-year-old New Mexico native has been razor sharp since returning to featherweight late in 2022, turning in nothing but impressive performances as he’s steadily climbed the ranks. Posting a sixth straight victory by completely outclassing a Top 15 mainstay like Kattar should earn him another step up in competition next time out, and potentially a number next to his name.

Charriere attacked with heavy calf kicks and swift jabs in the first, taking advantage of Landwehr’s tendency to start slow. The Tennessee native warmed into the contest, seemingly setting up a pivotal third round, but Charriere had other ideas, hurting Landwehr early in the frame before swinging for the fences and smashing out a finish.

This was all action and a gnarly finish, with Charriere continuing his pattern of alternating wins and losses, earning a third stoppage inside the Octagon. He forced this one out of the hands of the judges, and earned the biggest win of his UFC career in the process, solidifying his place in the Second 15 in the 145-pound ranks in the process.

The Brazilian, who spent his first six UFC fights competing at 205 pounds, bullied Lane to the canvas early in the contest, quickly climbing to mount and threatening with an arm-triangle choke. He gave up on the hold and eventually forced Lane to give up his back, attacking a short choke and forcing Lane to tap in the waning moments of the opening round.

Still developing as a fighter, Petrino looked impressive in his heavyweight division, weighing in heavier than Lane and using his physicality and pressure to dominate the action. It’s going to be interesting to see how quickly he can climb the ranks in his new division, as the Dana White’s Contender Series grad remains an intriguing talent with clear upside.

The Kill Cliff FC staple leaned on his advantage in the grappling department from the outset, repeatedly dragging Tafa to the canvas in order to neutralize his striking skills. From there, the Florida-based Brit patiently worked to attack the choke, sliding off to the right side of Tafa’s body from mount and drawing out the tap.

After suffering setbacks in each of his first two UFC starts, Tokkos gets into the win column with a finish here. The 35-year-old is a near weekly presence in the corners of his teammates, and you could see how much this one meant to the trio of Sean Soriano, Brendan Allen, and Robbie Lawler in his corner as they all celebrated the finish.