Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes.

Kyte: Sure, and I know what you mean, but you’ve gotta gimme a little more here.

I’m in. Sign me up. Always.

Kyte: The “this is what the situation is and we’ve got to figure it out” thing.

Kyte: I think UFC 307 was the evidence of that. This dude is faster than I expected, he’s tougher than I expected, hanging around more than I expected, hitting me more than I expected; okay — how do we switch it up?

He went southpaw a little more. He jabbed a little more.

Kyte: “The Flu Game.”

Kyte: “This is the one time where I can play terrible and just not have it tonight.”

It’s that.

Show strikes up the middle, get your jab going, get some knees going so that it makes Ankalaeva little hesitant to shoot, so that he’s shooting off his heels, so that he’s shooting in a reactive way.

It’s that and then drag it into deep water. Either get him out of there easy and quick — which is always a possibility with “Poatan,” which he’s always looking to do — but don’t mind it going into deep water either.

Kyte: That’s not who he is at all. When that’s your best path to victory, how do you go out and implement the thing that is kind of Option B most of the time? How do you switch from Option A — which is that he wants to be in space, use his kicks, use his range; where wrestling can be a secondary option — to “I just need to wrestle from the jump and I need to be really good at it,” or is that not possible?

Kyte: What, if anything, is the X-factor in this fight?

Kyte: It’s weird to me that he was in Australia at the start of February.

And it’s more mental than anything.

Kyte: And then it never comes back.

This game is so unkind, and almost no one gets out unscathed. We’ll see what happens.

Kyte: It makes sense that it catches champions, too, because everyone that’s on the chase, you’re still on the chase and you’ve gotta respect it.

Kyte: And the one time he got caught, he said, “Enough with this weight cut, I’m gonna go up,” and he really hasn’t been touched.

Kyte: So it makes sense that you think, “I can be in Australia at the start of February and beat this guy at the start of March.”

Kyte: Okay, so what’s the one curiosity point here for you?

Kyte: This sport, more than any other, we have this weird relationship with extended success and prolonged success, but we also have a frustration with constant turnover. We hate it when a belt is changing hands all the time, but we also start getting bored when someone gets to two or three title defenses.

Kyte: If every year, the defense just swallows up the other team and it’s 13-3…

Kyte: It feels like in MMA we enjoy it for the first two, and when it comes to the third…

Kyte: I think “Poatan” is different.