
What It Means: Few fighters are as complete as Shevchenko. Her striking is crisp, especially when she is able to establish her counterstriking game. She is elite at slipping and coming back at her opponent with a long combination, and when she is comfortable on the feet, she often ends those combinations with kicks to the body or head. “Bullet” also likes to counter with spinning attacks when her opponent enters. If she wants, she can also bring the fight to the mat quite effectively, and her physical strength really shines as she goes for hip tosses and trips. When on top, she is patient and diligent about improving her position and maintaining control.

What It Means: “The Beast” is an imposing athlete with good technique and ability across the board. Her best tools come in the standup realm, where she is very disciplined when it comes to her gameplan. She likes to end her combinations with kicks to the body, and when pressing the action, she varies her attacks much more than when she is backing up and countering. Fiorot’s physicality shows itself in grappling exchanges, where she is able to utilize her physical strength to fend off takedowns or improve positions in the clinch.

What to Look For in the Fight: Shevchenko’s strength is that she can adapt and adjust to bring the fight anywhere she feels is her best path to victory. In this matchup, that is likely in the grappling department, but Shevchenko also feels like her striking can best anyone in the division. On the feet, Shevchenko is a bit cleaner and might have the speed advantage, but how she deals with Fiorot’s size and strength is key. Shevchenko should have plenty of opportunities to counter,although both women will have an adjustment to make facing a fellow southpaw. Fiorot, despite Shevchenko’s keen countering skills, will be best served staying on the front foot while beingmindful about any attempts to bring the fight to the ground.

What It Means: The former flyweight champion is a well-rounded fighter whose best work comes with her hands. Grasso’s boxing is particularly effective. She keeps a tight guard and carries real power when throwing in the pocket. She is also confident in her grappling and goes for submissions with real aggression off her back and on top.

What It Means: Silva is one of the slicker strikers in the women’s flyweight division. She is dynamic, varied and light on her feet, throwing spinning kicks with little telegraphing and finding heavy combinations, as well. Her defensive grappling has held up thus far, and that, plus her ability to manage distance, make her a difficult puzzle for opponents to solve.

What to Look For in the Fight: Between the two, Silva has the deeper bag of tricks when it comes to striking, but Grasso is able to march forward and apply pressure, which should come in handy in terms of limiting Silva’s kicking game. Grasso does probably have the grappling advantage, as well, so she could slow the Brazilian down mixing in some clinches and takedowns. Silva could find success kicking Grasso’s legs and body when she implements her high guard.