
“It was one of the best nights of my life,” he said.

“I got the UFC contract, which I've dreamed of for so long, and then got that contract, got the bonus, I met Dana White after the fight. So it was all surreal for me. But yeah, I’ve visualized it so many times. So it feels like a dream to me.”

But that dream turned into a nightmare eight months later when he suffered his first loss, as he was knocked out in the third round by a Mike Breeden who had weighed in 3.5 pounds over the limit for their bout at UFC 294 in Abu Dhabi.

“No regrets from that fight. I think that fight was important for me, so I take it as positively as possible,” he said.

“Obviously, when you lose your first fight, it's hard to accept it, hard to deal with it. For a month, it haunted me.

“But after a month, I realized nobody cares (that I lost). It's just me overthinking it, so I just started training hard again, and here I am.”

That epiphany came when he returned home, and his interactions with his friends and family were no different for him than it would have been if he’d won, with Jublifalling into the same familiar conversations, with his career barely registering.

“When I went to my hometown, I met my parents and met my friends, and they were not talking about it,” he explained.

“They talked to me just like before, and, we were talking about the same things. With my friends, I’ve been talking about the same things we’ve been talking about for the last 15 years.

“So I was like, ‘OK, these guys are not gonna change. I’m fighting for these guys, so I won’t care (about the loss, either). I’ll keep my head down and keep working hard.’”

“I'm actually very excited. I love the fight week,” he said.

“It's tough for the fighters, because you're cutting weight, you're not eating carbs. But yeah, (I love) this whole thing, all the fighters, this energy, everyone is here to fight, here to prove themselves and doing all these interviews, very confident people all around.”

“And I’ve always been an underdog. I’ve always taken on challenges. When I took the Road to UFC challenge, nobody took it in India, they offered everyone this tournament. But it's hard to win a tournament if you come from an Indian MMA background. It’s hard to win a tournament against Chinese, Japanese, Korean fighters.

“But I took the chance. I won the tournament. I'm in the UFC. So it's always a challenging fight for me, and I think it's the fifth or sixth time that I'm the underdog, but I'm going to prove them wrong.”

“It doesn't feel like pressure at all,” he said.

“I won't say it motivates me, it just makes me happy. It makes me happy that I am representing this big of a country in the UFC.

“There's so many UFC fans in India and I carry the hope. I carry the belief. So I feel very, very happy.”

“I will do everything that I can to win this fight, and I’m going to go there and dominate the fight.”