
Souza has lost just once in the last four years, posting seven wins in eight starts, with that lone setback coming on short notice, up a division, against Karine Silva in her UFC debut.

The 29-year-old suffered a knee injury in that contest, but since returning to action and the strawweight division, the former Invicta FC champ has posted back-to-back wins over Marnic Mann and Yazmin Jauregui to put herself on the doorstep of the Top 15 as she heads into this weekend’s pairing with rankings mainstay Angela Hill.

Souza’s initial UFC win over Mann was your garden variety one-sided contest, with the Brazilian earning a clean sweep of the scorecards against the DWCS alum. But her bout with Jauregui was a statement effort on a massive stage, as “Esquentadinha” dropped the Mexican prospect with a clubbing left hook, chasing her to the canvas and choking her out seconds later, earning herself both a Performance of the Night bonus at UFC 306 and Submission of the Month honors in the Monthly Report for September.

Now she faces the inevitable veteran litmus test, stepping in against Hill in a bout that is all too familiar for the Ultimate Fighter alum and long-tenured strawweight. Though she has not been able to string together the requisite wins to emerge as a bona fide contender in the 115-pound weight class, Hill has continued to improve each time out and is the kind of experienced hand that each division needs stationed inside the rankings for situations just like this one.

This is Souza’s first opportunity to take a big step forward in the division, and after her massive showing as an underdog against Jauregui, she’ll have an opportunity to really announce herself as an ascending threat in the strawweight ranks if she’s able to collect a third straight win by besting Hill. She has an intriguing mix of power, finishing skills, and general meanness to her game that make her a fascinating fighter to track heading into this one, and it’s going to be interesting to see that all come out on Saturday night in Las Vegas.

While Zalal and Souza are looking to force their way into the rankings, Cavalcanti is already stationed inside the Top 15, currently residing at No. 13 as she readies to take on Julia Avila this weekend.

Cavalcanti has gone 3-0 in the UFC to extend her winning streak to six and her record to 8-1 overall heading into this one. She earned a unanimous decision win over Zarah Fairn in her debut and landed on the happy side of a split decision verdict in each of her last two outings against Josiane Nunes and Nora Cornolle, though few agreed with the lone judge that awarded Cornolle the fight last fall in Paris.

What makes the Brazilian-born, Portugal-based bantamweight such an interesting addition to the weight class and a fighter to track going forward is that she has very good size and athleticism for the division, standing five-foot-eight and showing good movement and fluidity in her striking. She could certainly be a little more active in terms of letting loose with her weapons, but some of that comes with time, and as good as she’s looked thus far, it’s worth remembering that Cavalcanti only turned 27 last summer and is still just nine fights into her professional career.

That’s why Saturday’s pairing with Avila feels perfect, as the “Raging Panda” is the kind of feisty, gritty, experienced competitor that will serve as a tremendous measuring stick to gauge where Cavalcanti current sits in the division and what her future might hold. Though she’s just 3-2 inside the Octagon, the 12th-ranked Avila is not someone to be trifled with and will fight you to the very final moment, every time out.

Bantamweight is currently light on fresh, emerging names, which is another piece of why there is (or should be) a lot of attention on Cavalcanti heading into this one. While the title situation gets sorted out, there is room for up-and-comers to get quality matchups against tenured talents, and if she can pick up a fourth straight UFC victory on Saturday, there is a very real possibility that she finds herself standing opposite someone with a single digit next to their name next time out.