
Every year, the incoming class of hopefuls have a lot to live up to, but the Season 9 contestants truly have a high bar to clear to measure up to last year’s graduating class, as several members of the Class of ’24 have already started making serious noise in their respective divisions during their first year on the roster. But you could have said the same for that group, who followed the Season 6 crew that featured the Fighting Nerds trio of Carlos Prates, Jean Silva, and Mauricio Ruffy (amongst many others) and they managed to do it, so here’s to this year’s crop raising the bar again.

A teammate and training partner of UFC standout Nassourdine Imavov, the 28-year-old Bouafia arrives in Las Vegas with a perfect 6-0 mark as a professional, with the first five of those victories coming inside the distance. Bouafia’s opponents to date have a 5-11 record with one no contest (-6.5 Since Score) since they shared the cage with the ascending prospect, who made his last two appearances at light heavyweight.

The 27-year-old Santana, who has been preparing alongside Tallison Teixeira and Kevin Vallejos with Team Lucas Minheiro, comes in with a 7-2-1 record, a three-fight winning streak, and a +2 Since Score, even with two of his early opponents never fighting again. He’s been to the scorecards a couple times and is likely to lean on his greater experience and seemingly tougher strength of schedule to carry him through this one and into the UFC alongside Teixeira and Vallejos.

Unbeaten Russian Baisangur Susurkaev takes on Murtaza Talha, who represents the Kingdom of Bahrain, in this competitive middleweight pairing.

Susurkaev has been a wrecking machine to date, garnering eight straight wins and seven finishes, six of them in the first round, five of them in under 90 seconds, since making his pro debut at the end of 2019. It’s worth noting, however, that he has a -6 Since Score, with four of his opponents either having yet to have fought again or simply never doing so following their encounter. You can only beat the guy in front of you, but these things are always interesting to me and something I will track all season.

Talha makes his return to the UFC APEX after competing on Season 7, where he lost to Rodolfo Bellato. He bounced back with a win that has been flagged by Tapology, advancing to 7-1 as a professional, and has a +1 Since Score, which inches into the positive thanks to a submission win over DWCS alum Mikheil Sazhiniani and Bellato being unbeaten through his first three UFC starts.

Radley Da Silva and George Mangos clash in this meeting of champions from their respective promotions that promotes to be exciting.

The 30-year-old Da Silva is 7-1 as a professional (-1 Since Score) and riding a seven-fight winning streak, having successfully defended the BFL featherweight strap in each of his last three outings. The Vancouver-area capoeira stylist has a penchant for delivering highlight reel finishes, and will look to become the first Canadian talent to get a win on the Contender Series since fellow BFL champs Caio Machado and Serhiy Sidey accomplished the feat in Season 7.

Panferov was the first of three men to face off with and fall to Torrez Finney on Dana White’s Contender Series, having been tapped by the current UFC middleweight midway through their Season 7 meeting. He’s earned two wins since that first appearance at the UFC APEX to advance to 8-1 in his career (+1 Since Score), including registering a third-round stoppage win over fellow DWCS alum Khadzimurat Bestaev last time out.