Saturday evening, Morgan Charriere makes his sixth appearance inside the Octagon when he faces off with Melquizael Costa in a compelling main card fixture in the featherweight division.

Eleven years earlier, “The Last Pirate” ventured into uncharted waters, making the walk to the cage for the first time for his professional debut, complete unsure of what the future may hold.

“I was a kid — I was 19 years old maybe — and I had not a lot of experience, no amateur bouts,” began Charriere, thinking back to his professional debut a couple days out from his 34th start. “In France it was different — the sport was not legal — so I didn’t know what I was really going to find with this, I just knew I was going to fight without protection, just small gloves.

Cage Warriors was thriving and serving as a pipeline for talent from the United Kingdom and Europe to make their way to the biggest stages in the sport. Charriere saw this and set his sights on breaking through in Britian, eventually joining Paul Hughes and Jordan Vucenic as an ultra-talented triumvirate that traded the title amongst themselves at the top of the featherweight division for a couple of years.

His overall success, exciting style, and considerable popularity put him on the UFC radar, ultimately leading to his being signed and debuting at home in Paris with a first-round stoppage win over Manolo Zecchini. In addition to thrilling the partisan crowd at Accor Arena, it nabbed Charriere a post-fight bonus and showed UFC fans what their Cage Warriors counterparts already knew: whenever the French featherweight steps into the cage, excitement follows.

Saturday’s matchup with Costa will be his third appearance of 2025. He dropped a decision to Nathaniel Wood in March and rebounded with a third-round stoppage win over Nate Landwehr in Nashville in mid-July. Although he would have liked to have competed on the annual Paris card in September, Charriere and his team thought better of it, opting instead to pass on the home game in hopes of having greater success this weekend.

If the plan is to stack exciting wins in order to climb the ranks, Charriere’s victory over Landwehr is an excellent starting point.

Tied at one round each on two of three scorecards heading into the final frame (Landwehr was up 2-0 on the other), the 30-year-old rising star came out of the corner guns blazing to open the final five minutes, swinging for the fences and connecting with enough power shots to stop “Nate the Train” in his tracks just 27 seconds later.

“I think beating Nate the way I did and beating ‘Melky’ the way I see it (happening) could really catapult me straight to the top of the division because of what I bring: four bonuses in five fights, only exciting finishes, crazy things,” opined Charriere. “I think this fight is really important for me to win, especially in spectacular fashion, but that’s the way I fight.