
The two-time title challenger sits 12th in the official UFC welterweight rankings, and he will put that ranking on the line on Saturday night when he takes on Brazilian submission ace Gabriel Bonfim in the co-main event in Nashville, Tennessee.

It’s also a chance for Thompson to exorcise some ghosts from his past as he returns to the city where he suffered his first knockout loss.

“I got some redemption (on my mind) here because last time I was in Nashville, I got knocked out by Anthony Pettis,” he explained.

Thompson remains a factor in a welterweight division that has gone through a period of regeneration over the last couple of years. A lot of the faces “Wonderboy” shared the Octagon with in his early UFC career have departed the stage, with a young, hungry, dangerous crop of contenders replacing them.

“It's pretty cool,” he admitted.

“I mean, yes, the title has changed. First it was Leon (Edwards), then it was Belal (Muhammad), now it’s JDM (Jack Della Maddalena). Now Islam (Makhachev) is coming up to 170. I’m like, ‘Bro! Stay in your weight class!’

"Our weight class is ridiculous right now, but it is what it is. It gets people excited. So it’s really cool to be in the division. I’m ranked number 12, which is nuts, because I haven't been out of the top 10 since like 2013-14. And being the oldest guy in the UFC and on the card, I'm doing pretty well.”

His upcoming test will see him put his skills to the test against Bonfim, a Dana White’s Contender Series graduate who has claimed victory in four of his five UFC appearances to date.

“It wasn't anything I was looking for. It was who was available at the time,” he explained.

“I wanted to fight in Atlanta, but it didn't pan out. So they were like, ‘Hey, what about Gabriel Bonfim?’"

A ranked fighter offered a dangerous unranked finisher may take a moment's pause, but Thompson said he was happy to accept the assignment, and cited some of his early UFC opponents as he explained why he was so willing to give a young, hungry fighter the chance to prove himself against him.

“If it wasn't for Jake Ellenberger, Johny Hendricks, and Rory MacDonald – these guys gave me a shot, when I wasn't even ranked, to move up," he said.

“So I'm kind of the guy in the division known to let these up and comers come and test themselves. I did it with Vicente Luque, Geoff Neal, Kevin Holland, so I don't mind that at all.

“It's starting to become like a fad. A lot of guys in the UFC are trying to hold on to their spot (and) not giving these up-and-coming guys a chance. So I'm here to give him a chance.”

Three of Bonfim’s four UFC victories have come via submission, with the Brazilian showcasing his finishing ability on the mat. In total, 76 percent of his professional wins have come via submission, and Thompson knows “Marretinha” will bring plenty of pressure.

“The dude's tough, man,” he said.

“He's a very aggressive starter. He’ll come at you just guns a-blazing, and he's so aggressive. He gets guys to shoot on him, and then he's waiting for you for a D’Arce or a guillotine. He just looks like a dude that has a tight squeeze, like he’ll squeeze you in half, you know?

“So I know he's gonna be tough, but I like those guys, those aggressive guys. I don't like the guys that wait back. Of course, I know he's an intelligent fighter, so I know he's done a study on me, so we'll see what he brings. But I'm ready for everything.”

Thompson’s latest appearance comes with the former title challenger sitting as the oldest fighter on the UFC roster. And, cognizant of the ticking clock on his career, he’s determined to enjoy every moment as he heads into Saturday night’s bout.

“I’m a different fighter in the fact that I would say I'm a little bit more wise than I was then,” he explained.

“But now I'm trying to soak everything up as (much) as I can. My last fight, just walking out into that Octagon and hearing the crowd cheering your name, coming out to Tenacious D’s  ‘Wonderboy’, which is pretty cool.

And, while his goal is always to win, his biggest motivation is always the children he teaches and coaches at his karate school back home. A huge contingent of them are heading to Nashville to cheer him on this weekend and, win, lose, or draw, "Wonderboy" is determined to set a good example for his young students.

"To me, it's more important than the fighting," he admitted.