For 36-fight veteran Andre Fili, there isn't too much he hasn't seen and experienced in his 34 years. Some of it has been good, and some of it has been bad. And, as he returns to the place he once called home this weekend for UFC Fight Night: Cejudo vs. Song, he arrives back in Seattle with a feeling of inner peace.

Fili grew up in Federal Way, a city within the Seattle metropolitan area, where he spent his early years in a home that saw him endure an at-times tough upbringing. Eventually, his mother took the family south to Sacramento, where they eventually settled into life in California.

But, as Fili returns to Washington State as a grown man, he does so feeling much better about life than he did when he departed as a youngster.

Hearing Fili speak, it's clear that this assignment carries additional motivation for him. But simply returning home is only part of it.

Fili is set to become a father later this spring, and he revealed that the knowledge that he's now fighting for more than himself has taken his mindset to a place he's never been to before.

"I'm getting emotional, man," he said.

"Everything comes full circle. When I left here, I was an angry kid who was dealing with a lot of things that he didn't quite understand. And now I'm back as a man that I'm proud of, and I have a son on the way, and I've broken the cycle, and I have changed the course of my family's history. And, on Saturday night, I get to go do what I love and continue on that journey.

Fili's last UFC appearance saw him go back and forth over three super-competitive rounds with fellow Octagon veteran Cub Swanson. It was a bout that Fili said he'll cherish after getting to share the cage with one of the most respected figures in the sport.

"It was really weird to fight Cub. It was an honor," said Fili.

"He's a guy that I've watched literally since high school. I've been a fan of Cub for a long time.

"It felt weird being in there with him. One, because he's Cub Swanson. You're fighting a guy that you've watched for years. And two, because his timing is so weird and his style so weird. And for 15 minutes, I could never really figure out what he was doing.

"He hits hard, and he's a weird guy to fight. I was very happy to get the win in a tough fight."

Fili also said that he saw a little of himself in Swanson, and explained that being able to fight an authentic, legitimate character in the cage meant a lot to him.

"I was honored to get to share the cage with him, because his story and mine probably share a lot of similarities," he said.

"Cub is not one of those guys. And so anytime you fight another guy who's authentic, who's really himself, unapologetically and authentically himself, you got my utmost respect. Cub is a legend, man. It was, was an honor to get to fight him."

Having shared the cage with a legend last time out, Fili now finds himself matched against Costa, who has five UFC fights to his name compared to Fili's 24.

It's a bout that Fili plans to use to kickstart a huge year, both personally and professionally.

"I got 2025 planned, brother. It's already manifested," he said.