
But he finally got one locked in, former title challenger Brian Ortega, in the co-main event slot in Shanghai. With Alexander Volkanovski reclaiming his spot atop the throne at 145 pounds, everyone is gunning for the opportunity to get their crack at gold.

“When I first moved to the featherweight division, Brian Ortega was ranked two or three, so when I came up, I wanted to fight him because if I beat the highest ranked guy, that should put me next in line for a title shot,” Sterling said. “Now, he is ranked in the top five and it’s the only fight that really makes sense for either one of us, instead of fighting back and down in the division, so I get this win, and it puts me in the top five positioning and hopefully one fight away, if not, next in line for the title shot.”

Picking up a belt in his new division has always been the goal for “Funk Master” after his reign at bantamweight. It’s been over a year since he made the jump to featherweight, earning a win over Calvin Kattar last April.

His fight this Saturday, which is being held at a catchweight of 153 pounds, marks only the second time the 36-year-old has competed outside of the United States in his entire career, the other time being when he defended his belt against TJ Dillashaw in Abu Dhabi a few years ago. Despite all the additional things that come along with fighting in another country across the world, Sterling is excited to show up and show out in front a sold-out crowd inside Shanghai Indoor Stadium.

He gets to do so with a fun dance partner in Ortega, as well. Saturday’s fight marks Ortega’s first contest since he lost to Diego Lopes last September at Noche UFC. Even with his up and down results over the past few years, Sterling is the first to note how dangerous “T-City” is.

With eight of Ortega’s 16 wins ending by submission, but Sterling never losing a fight by submission, it’ll be interesting to see how this one plays out between two high-level grapplers. When Sterling asked how he envisions the fight going on Saturday, he said it depends what version of Ortega shows up because he knows he is going to show up and push the pace. He knows Ortega is a threat everywhere and anything can happen at any moment, so he has to stay focused.

And as far as what’s next for Sterling with a win over Ortega, he isn’t quite sure, because he was in honest in saying that it isn’t up to him to make those decisions. With Murphy coming off his huge knockout last weekend, and another big featherweight fight happening in a few weeks between Lopes and Jean Silva, a lot of things are up in the air, which means Sterling just has to take it one step at a time.