On most fronts, Sean O’Malley’s first meeting with Merab Dvalishvili didn’t go as anticipated.

Paired off in the main event of UFC 306 last September at Sphere, O’Malley entered as the champion, seeking the second defense of his bantamweight tile, while Dvalishvili arrived as the hard-charging challenger, eager to avenge the loss suffered by his dear friend and long-time training partner Aljamain Sterling and claim championship gold for himself.

Dvalishvili largely dominated the fight, using his relentless wrestling and bottomless gas tank to dethrone the usually iridescent champion, whose output and flair was far more muted that first time around. In the aftermath of the contest, O’Malley disclosed that he entered the fight with a significant hip injury that limited his ability to grapple during training camp — a prerequisite when you’re preparing to fight the Georgian — and the assumption was that once he was healthy and ready to return, the two would face off again.

“Physically it was completely different,” O’Malley said of his training camp for this weekend’s championship rematch with Dvalishvili. “I was able to prepare the proper way for a guy like Merab. You can’t run the mountain, hit mitts, and then go fight Merab; you’ve got to be on the mats, grappling. You’ve got to be wrestling, and that’s what we were able to do this fight.

“Even last fight, I was very confident going into that cage, thought I was gonna put his lights out — didn’t get the job done — but I'm even more confident this time.”

Though preparation wasn’t the reason for the changes, the thoughtful and articulate challenger does recognize the impact cutting out social media has had on his stress levels heading into this weekend’s highly anticipated rematch with Dvalishvili.

That’s a positive, because facing Dvalishvili is a scary proposition in and of itself, as the 34-year-old champion enters their second battle on a 12-fight winning streak, having put together one of the most impressive runs of victories of any fighter in recent memory.

On the way up the divisional ranks, the fun-loving grinder turned back a former title challenger and three men that previously held UFC gold before dethroning O’Malley. Four months later, he was back in the Octagon, authoring a signature win over undefeated challenger Umar Nurmagomedov, leaning on his conditioning and pace to rally over the final three rounds to retain his title.

“It’s gonna be incredible,” he said when asked how it would feel to become a two-time champion on Saturday night. “To take the belt from Aljamain Sterling and then to take the belt from his teammate Merab — that’s movie-s***; you can’t make that s*** up. It’s gonna feel good, gonna feel right, and it’s full circle.

“This is where I gave Merab my jacket, this is where Aljo and Henry fought, and I fought the winner. We’re back in New Jersey; full circle.”

Though Dvalishvili has fought since their first encounter, it’s an immediate rematch for O’Malley, so would “Suga” be willing to begin his second reign by running things back one more time with the dangerous Dvalishvili?