
It’s just not his style. But when he meets up with Ion Cutelaba at the weigh-in for their UFC 315 bout in Montreal, and again on fight night at the Bell Centre, he is well aware that he might see the usual intensity from “The Hulk.”

And he’s okay with it.

Maturity is a good way to describe the evolution of the 31-year-old Bukauskas. A far cry from the fighter who put together a 1-3 record in his first stint in the UFC in 2020-21, “The BalticGladiator” took a “me against the world” approach in his quest to get back on the roster, and after two wins in the Cage Warriors promotion, he was invited back in 2023. What resulted is a 4-1 record with back-to-back finishes of Marcin Prachnio and Rafael Cerqueira, and while he still keeps a chip on his shoulder just in case, the fact is that few are doubting him anymore. At least that’s what the world sees. In Bukauskas’ universe, the work is not done yet.

Staying on the straight and narrow includes long days in the gym with Tom Aspinall and his crew, and plenty of rest to get ready for the next training session. It’s not glamorous, but the sacrifices are paying off, and with a third consecutive win this weekend, Bukauskas could find himself knocking on the door of the Top 15 or bashing down that door.

“The division's pretty much wide open and with an impressive win, I'll definitely be looking at a Top 15 matchup after that. And then I just keep working my way up the ranks. I even looked at it the other day, and Dominick Reyes is now 35. It's mad because I always thought of him as being the 29, 30-year-old rising star. And obviously now he's gone on a bit of a tear, but he's 35. So yeah, in the division, everything just comes and goes very quickly so you’ve got to make the most of it and strike while the iron's hot. That's essentially the position where I'm at now. When you're on a streak, you want to just keep it going and keep it rolling because two, three more fights, you're looking at a title shot. The division's very wide open and it's very exciting, so it just makes me want to work harder and makes me want to go out there and perform because the routeto gold seems a lot more clear.”