
And this is one of those weeks where two of the three athletes below are on the precipice of punching their ticket to the Top 15, while the third is looking to climb into the Top 10 with another big win.

A standout prospect representing Factory X Muay Thai, Zalal opened his UFC career with three wins between February and August 2020, moving to 10-2 and establishing himself as someone to keep close tabs on in the featherweight division. But he lost his next three and battled Da’Mon Blackshear to a draw in a one-off move to bantamweight, resulting in his getting released from the promotion.

The 28-year-old posted three straight stoppage wins on the regional circuit following his departure and was called in on short-notice last March to face off with Billy Quarantillo, dominating the opening round before choking out the Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) grad in the second round to push his winning streak to four and kick off his second tour of duty with the UFC. A little less than five months later, Zalal rolled through Jarno Errens, and then in November, he knocked down and choked out Jack Shore with incredible smoothness in Edmonton to close out an incredible comeback year with three wins, three finishes, and a ton of momentum.

Saturday night, Zalal opens his 2025 campaign in a co-main event matchup against Calvin Kattar that should provide a clear indication as to whether or not he’s ready to continue climbing the ranks and hang with the best in the division.

What made Zalal an intriguing prospect when he was originally called up to the UFC remains the bedrock of his game today — he’s a fluid, multi-faceted fighter with keen finishing instincts; someone that is able to hurt you with various weapons and knows how to chase down a stoppage once there is blood in the water. What has changed, in my opinion, is that he’s now a little more measured, a little more genuinely sure of himself as an athlete, and it has allowed him to fight with greater confidence and improved patience, which only ups the danger factor for those standing across from him.

Kattar is an interesting test at this point, as he’s been a Top 15 stalwart for an extended period of time, but enters having dropped four of his last five fights. While they’ve all come against Top 10 talents — with one coming by way of injury and another a debated decision — the Methuen, Massachusetts man is surely itching to show he’s still amongst the best in the division, and has shown in the past that he’s capable of halting the ascent of promising talents in the 145-pound weight class.

A fourth straight win would likely propel Zalal into the Top 15, maybe even the Top 10, depending on how things shake out, and put him in a position to continue working forward in the division throughout the remainder of the year. He feels like a dark horse contender right now, and has a chance to shed a little more light on where he fits this weekend.

Souza has lost just once in the last four years, posting seven wins in eight starts, with that lone setback coming on short notice, up a division, against Karine Silva in her UFC debut.

Souza’s initial UFC win over Mann was your garden variety one-sided contest, with the Brazilian earning a clean sweep of the scorecards against the DWCS alum. But her bout with Jauregui was a statement effort on a massive stage, as “Esquentadinha” dropped the Mexican prospect with a clubbing left hook, chasing her to the canvas and choking her out seconds later, earning herself both a Performance of the Night bonus at UFC 306 and Submission of the Month honors in the Monthly Report for September.

Now she faces the inevitable veteran litmus test, stepping in against Hill in a bout that is all too familiar for the Ultimate Fighter alum and long-tenured strawweight. Though she has not been able to string together the requisite wins to emerge as a bona fide contender in the 115-pound weight class, Hill has continued to improve each time out and is the kind of experienced hand that each division needs stationed inside the rankings for situations just like this one.

This is Souza’s first opportunity to take a big step forward in the division, and after her massive showing as an underdog against Jauregui, she’ll have an opportunity to really announce herself as an ascending threat in the strawweight ranks if she’s able to collect a third straight win by besting Hill. She has an intriguing mix of power, finishing skills, and general meanness to her game that make her a fascinating fighter to track heading into this one, and it’s going to be interesting to see that all come out on Saturday night in Las Vegas.

While Zalal and Souza are looking to force their way into the rankings, Cavalcanti is already stationed inside the Top 15, currently residing at No. 13 as she readies to take on Julia Avila this weekend.