
Now that the dust has settled in Las Vegas, it’s time to go to the scorecard to recap some of the night’s biggest winners at UFC Fight Night: Garcia vs Onama.

The main event gave in-form featherweights Steve Garcia and David Onama a great opportunity to showcase their talents in a bout that many thought would offer a back-and-forth war. But, in the end, it was one-way traffic as Garcia steamrolled Onama en route to a first-round TKO win.

The Albuquerque native showcased his brand of forward pressure and educated striking as he pieced up Onama through the first round before eventually overwhelming him with strikes to force referee Herb Dean to intervene and wave off the contest.

With his 15th knockout and eighth first-round finish secured, it seems likely that Garcia's next bout will see him sharing the Octagon with top-10 opposition. But, while he's happy to continue that journey to the top of the featherweight division, "Mean Machine" revealed he'd also be keen on a small detour via the BMF title as he called for a bout with Max Holloway.

Whoever he ends up facing next in the Octagon, make no mistake, Garcia is a legitimate threat to the division's best at 145 pounds.

He may have a fun-sounding nickname, but don't make "Salsa Boy" mad.

It looked like Waldo Cortes Acosta had been stopped with strikes by Ante Delija, but it transpired that an accidental eye poke had compromised him at the start of that sequence. After some confusion, order was eventually restored, and Cortes Acosta was allowed injury time to recover.

And, when the action got underway, a clearly angry Cortes Acosta didn't waste any time. He walked straight at Delija and landed a big right hand that dropped the Croatian. A flurry of heavy-duty follow-up shots finished the job as "Salsa Boy", still smarting from the eye poke, ran out the knockout victor.

After a stop-start run over the last couple of years, Jeremiah Wells is back, and he's a man in a hurry.

Wells headed into Saturday night's bout on a two-fight skid, having lost a technical submission to Carlston Harris in August 2023 and a split-decision to Max Griffin in February 2024. To add to the frustration, Wells was forced to withdraw from planned bouts with Niko Price and Andreas Gustafsson.

The former CFFC welterweight champion now wants to keep things moving and tossed out a number of options in his post-fight interview, including Michael Chiesa. Whoever the matchmakers give him, getting back in the mix will be a huge win for Wells as he looks to make an impact at 170 pounds.

It might not be long before Allan Nascimento has a number next to his name.

Brazil's Nascimento may have lost out on his first shot at the UFC when he lost to Raulian Paiva on Dana White's Contender Series back in 2018, but now he's fully established in the UFC, and he's definitely one to watch in the flyweight division.

Nascimento faced a stern test of his credentials against an aggressive, motivated Cody Durden on Saturday night and, despite being forced onto the back foot through the early portion of the fight, "Puro Osso" worked out his opponent, found his path to victory, then executed superbly to claim the win.

His second-round anaconda choke finish took his career submissions tally to 16 as he claimed his 22nd pro win. And with the 34-year-old now sitting at 4-1 in the UFC and riding a four-fight win streak, a matchup against ranked opposition would seem to be the logical next step for the Sao Paulo submission specialist.