For most of his fighting career, Jamal Pogues assumed that he needed chaos to succeed in the sport. And, if we’re being honest, most of the time it worked out for him. Sure, there were losses, some more pivotal than others, but he has 11 wins, two of them in the UFC, so he’s done all right for himself.

But that chaos had to go, and as he prepares to face Hamdy Abdelwahab this Saturday in Riyadh, it’s gone.

It's a lesson learned the hard way for the Los Angeles native, but one that also came with perfect timing, as he’s coming off a win over Thomas Petersen a year ago, and he won’t turn 30 until December, meaning that he’s probably approaching his physical prime in a heavyweight division where fighters peak late. So, he’s in a good place, one that began becoming real for him after he outpointed Petersen.

“It was a great year (in 2024) because there were a lot of growing pains,” he said. “I felt like I've matured. A lot of times we want certain things and we're not ready for those things. One thing people don't realize is when I came back to fighting, I almost shut the door on my career. I was done. I was wrapping it up, I gave my all and I couldn't get here. And when you get put back into that, ‘Hey, here you go, first fight back after two years is the Contender Series, now you're a UFC athlete,’ a lot of things just hit me all at once. Everything just hit me and it was like, yo, I'm done. Wait a minute, I'm in the UFC.”

Pogues laughs, but at the time, it was a lot to deal with. He defeated Marcos Brigagao on season three of Dana White’s Contender Series in 2019 but didn’t get a contract. He went 1-1 in his next two bouts in the LFA promotion but then walked away from the sport. When he returned, it was to the Contender Series, and this time, his win over Paulo Renato Jr. garnered him a spot on the UFC roster. Now he had to figure everything out.

Eventually, Pogues figured it all out. He changed his team, put folks around him that were focused on him, and with friends and family on board as well, he found the light at the end of the tunnel, and it wasn’t a train. Well, it was a train, but this one – Thomas “The Train” Petersen – was one he could handle.

“I've been in my way my whole career and I'm not going to blame my life and everything like everybody else has done, my upbringing; I've been in my way and it's time to get out of my way. And I feel like each fight back brought me closer to loving the sport again. And last year we fought Petersen, and I'm not going to lie to you, after fighting Peterson, he gave me that fire inside that I haven't had in a very long time.”

It's still burning bright a year later, and he’s ready to show the world what Jamal Pogues 2.0 looks like.

“I’ve got to trust myself to do the same things, and that I'm going to be okay when I do this,” he said. “A lot of people need that chaos and I don't need that chaos, man. I lived in chaos. People don't know my life and what it took to be here. I'm done with that part of my life.”