Main Event: Merab Dvalishvili vs Sean O’Malley

What It Means: “The Machine” is a relentless, marauding presence in the Octagon. He doesn’t have the cleanest technique and isn’t the most dominant physical presence, but his work rate, cardio and undeniable will to win combine to make him an absolute menace to face. He is light and bouncy on his feet with a decent striking game, but for Dvalishvili, it begins and ends with his grappling. Dvalishvili’s chain wrestling and willingness to hustle on the second, third or even fourth shots during a scramble is what makes him special. Once on top, he prefers to dish out ground-and-pound, but he will also happily continue to take opponents down multiple times.

What It Means: O’Malley is a sniper with real knockout power, which makes him one of the most dynamic and entertaining fighters to watch in the bantamweight division. “Suga,” when at his best, is a master of dictating the pace and distance of a fight. Whether he is switching stances to open up different angles within a combination or throwing myriad kicks to his opponent’s body and legs, O’Malley does best when he has space to operate. Because of that, his boxing on the inside is a little underrated. O’Malley has shown a decent defensive grappling ability, and he is quite confident in his jiu jitsu, as well, although he hasn’t shown much of it in the Octagon so far.

What to Look For in the Fight: Dvalshvili dominated their first meeting, but O’Malley claims he wasn’t 100 percent going into the fight, which hindered his ability to use his footwork and defend takedowns. To be fair to the former champion, nobody has cracked the code on the Georgian for about seven years, but if anyone has the ability to time Dvalishvili and find a finishing shot, it’s O’Malley. Dvalishvili must be mindful of the weapons coming his way, but if he can swarm O’Malley and prevent him from finding his rhythm, the rematch could look a lot like the first installment

Other Fights to Watch (Mario Bautista vs Patchy Mix)

What It Means: Bautista is a dynamic fighter with a well-rounded skillset. Despite some criticism for his performance against José Aldo, Bautista has shown a shape-shifting ability to change styles and find his path to victory, often in impressive fashion. His striking is diverse and intelligent, but his best self shows when the fight moves to grappling. From there, Bautista has shown a variety of slick submissions and high-level technique in scrambles.

Key Stats: N/A (UFC Debut)

What It Means: The long-awaited debut of Patchy Mix has arrived, which means UFC fans will get to see Mix’s strong all-around game, but also the introduction of one of the better grapplers at 135 pounds. He has a surprisingly long frame for the division, and he uses that to his advantage. On the feet, he’ll pressure and cut off the cage with his footwork, the threat of his grappling and long strikes like teep kicks and leg kicks. If he can get his opponent backed up to the cage, he can then take the fight to his world on the mat. On the back foot, Mix has good defensive grappling and a particularly strong front headlock game. His style is simple, but effective, and there is very little wasted effort during his fights

What to Look For in the Fight: This should be a fascinating fight, as Bautista has the skillset to push the fight wherever he finds the best path to victory, and he has the athleticism and footwork to evade Mix’s pressure. However, Mix likely has the grappling edge, so if he can back Bautista up, he will find success along the fence. If Bautista gets on the front foot, watch for some flying knees and other dynamic strikes. At the same time, if Bautista initiates a grappling exchange, Mix has shown good timing with knees moving both forward and backward.