The Octagon touches down in New Orleans, Louisiana, for the first time in 10 years, with a fight card headlined by the BMF showdown between Max Holloway and Dustin Poirier.

With retirement on the horizon for Poirier, there is no better way to end the story of the “Diamond”than for the UFC to host in Louisiana.

The Scoop: The diamond in this rough lightweight division has shined bright for an illustrious career that has seen him attain the interim lightweight belt. The only blemish on an otherwise legendary career is not winning the undisputed belt. Nonetheless, Poirier has stayed in the lightweight rankings for about a decade now, and it has taken the likes of Khabib Nurmagomedov and Islam Mahkachev to displace him as king.

Poirier has split his last six fights, with wins over Benoit Saint-Denis, Michael Chandler and Conor McGregor. The wins on Poirier’s resume are fitting of his status as a lightweight legend. It has been over a year since Poirier’s submission loss to Islam Mahkachev for the lightweight title.

For what will be his final fight, there is no place more fitting than New Orleans to end Poirier’s journey. A familiar place and a familiar foe, as Holloway will complete the trilogy between them that has seen Poirier gain the upper hand with two wins. While the last fight between Holloway and Poirier was five years ago, both fighters still sit atop the rankings. Poirier hopes to ride into the sunset with a win over another legendary fighter, but Holloway aims to spoil the show.

The Scoop: The first fight of Brendan Allen’s 2025 campaign did not go as planned, as he was on the wrong end of a unanimous decision to Anthony Hernandez. This made it two decision losses in a row for the exciting Allen. More importantly, the losses broke up a seven-fight winning streak that saw Allen beat the likes of Chris Curtis, Paul Craig, and Bruno Silva, with two of them ending in submission victories.

Allen comes into this bout against Marvin Vettori, who is also on a two-fight skid. This should be an interesting matchup with the #10th and #11th ranked middleweights, who look to rebound.

It will be a full-circle moment for Allen as he finally fights in Louisiana as a member of the UFC roster.