
Ahead of this weekend’s battle for the vacant featherweight title between former champ Alexander Volkanovski and Brazilian standout Diego Lopes, Kyte sat down with Xtreme Couture leader Eric Nicksick to discuss what to watch for this weekend and how things may play out on Saturday night at Kaseya Center.

Kyte: Okay — let’s start with Diego Lopes. I would say his best trait is his explosiveness; his ability to create situations that present him opportunities.

Nicksick: The Gavin Tucker fight. The fight with Pat Sabatini.

Kyte: Sodiq (Yusuff). Even the Evloev fight. The reason that fight is so “What the hell?” is because there is no moment where he’s not attacking. Even though he’s on his back, he’s feet-on-hips, he’s actively shifting his hips — looking and searching and hunting, trying to find stuff.

To me, that’s his best trait. There is a chaotic element to it where he’s coming at you and you’ve gotta deal with it. If he’s gonna get you, it’s gonna be early. Look at his fights: first three guys he beats, he gets them all out of there in under 100 seconds, and the last two, as it’s gotten tougher, have been decisions.

Nicksick: Absolutely. I think the explosive start is super-important. He’s got to look to make Volkanovski uncomfortable early, and try to get in there with some unpredictable entries — flying knees, spinning attacks; stuff to keep Volkanovski off-guard.

Nicksick: I think he’s more polished, better Fight IQ, but I think he has more of a cerebral attack, and he’s very innovative in his approach. I think he’s more of a heady fighter than Lopes is…

Kyte: How do you use that headiness against a guy like Lopes that hasn’t been here, that is — and I don’t say this in a critical way — puffing out his chest right now, thinking he’s unstoppable, and rightfully so, because no one has stopped him over these last bunch of fights.

I think — and the thing you see with Volkanovski, especially in the Max Holloway fights — is that he’s patient, and not only that, he’s willing to continue to do something that works if you’re not willing to fix it.

Nicksick: A hundred percent, and that’s where his best trait with his Fight IQ comes into his path to victory because of his patience, the variety of ways he can beat you. I think he’s just far more polished than Lopes, in my opinion.

Kyte: And then the opposite side of that coin, if you’re Lopes, and we agree the best trait is that early energy, that explosiveness — when you’re facing a guy that has been knocked out in his last two fights — is there a way to weaponize that?

Is that where you just say to yourself, “Let me try to get this guy out of here in 90 seconds” and get after him right away?

Nicksick: Oh yeah. (Lopes) wants to force some of those pocket exchanges you would see with Holloway and Gaethje in the last 10 seconds — you want to force some chaotic exchanges, throughout the entire fight, for sure, but especially early on.

Kyte: He wants it to be like his fight with Sodiq where they got in real tight, so it can be “I’m gonna throw these uppercuts and we’re gonna see if your chin holds up.”

Nicksick: Yeah — he wants to bomb on him, and you want to take a page out of what Topuria did and funnel him; get him against a post where it takes away a lot of his exits. Because he’s so good with his movements, because he’s so good with his countering, eliminating the geography and putting him in a funnel is what I would try to do immediately.

Is it Volkanovski’s durability, because if it’s gone…

Nicksick: My X-factor is can Lopes keep the fight wild long enough in order to find something big or submit him or does Volk get past that storm, lock into his rhythm, and break Lopes’ consistent pressure and composure?If it’s chaos, it’s Lopes. If it’s order, it’s Volk, right? And how do you create chaos against a guy as that is very self-disciplined with the way he fights?

I agree with you about that, but man, it feels weird for it to be as simple as “Is Volk just beyond it?” We’ve talked about all the guys over the age of 35 and lighter weight classes, and as good as he was during that run, it’s four five-round fights in five fights — twice with Max, the distance with Ortega, and once again with Max.

He cruised in the last few wins of his title reign, but it’s still 25 minutes where you’re getting hit, and you’re 36 and you’ve been through some wars. It feels, it’s such a weird thing because it might just be that Islam (Makhachev) and Ilia (Topuria) are the best two fighters on the planet right now.

I have a feeling — and I’ve seen a lot of oddsmakers talking about laying it on Diego Lopes, but that would not be my play.

Kyte: He’s taken over a year, he’s not — I feel like the Topuria fight was him trying to prove something.

He goes up, loses to Islam the first time, his stock goes through the roof, and then he goes out and mauls Yair (Rodriguez) like a lot of smart people expected him to maul Yair. And then he goes into the second one, and it’s ill-advised and I think he turned around and thought, “This is gonna be like when I mauled Yair,” and he got in there with a kid that is too good.

Now he’s had over a year, and as good as I think Diego Lopes is, he’s not Ilia Topuria, and it feels too hard for me to say that all of sudden Volk isn’t elite any more.

Nicksick: Let me steal a word from the kids: low-key, I think you can see Volkanovski taking him down and being able to control him on the ground the way (Joanderson) Brito did, and even (Dan) Ige did.

Kyte: I wouldn’t be surprised to see him do it earlier too, because you know Lopes is fine with being there. Thats’ the tricky part.

Kyte: It’s the Ortega thing — “I’m fine being down here; I’ll find something.”

For me, I don’t know why — and maybe I end up eating my words — but I feel like it’s gonna be a pretty clean night for Volkanovski.

Nicksick: I think you touched on it already — the health of Volk. What Volkanovski do we see coming back after a year off? How does he look?

I think we’re gonna see a vintage performance from Volkanovski; I really do. Maybe that’s me being optimistic for him, but that is my genuine curiosity is which version of Volk are we gonna see: the vintage one or the one we saw the last two fights?

I can’t believe him to all of sudden be incapable of hanging with these guys. I think everything with Topuria was too quick and trying to prove too much against a super-confident, super-talented guy. You’ve got to be dialed all the way in to beat that guy, and I just can’t believe that he’s all of a sudden incapable of being that guy again.

Kyte: The other thing for me is can Diego Lopes just keep riding this?

It’s funny that it’s happening just after March Madness because you see teams go on these runs, so is he someone that is just locked into that zone where maybe he doesn’t get him out of there in the first 90 seconds, but it turns into the Ortega fight where I’ve roughed you up enough in the first round to where you’re now not the same guy, not the same threat.