Tuesday afternoon, I asked promising middleweight Ateba Gautier what he would have said to someone if they came to him five years ago and told him that in the not too distant future, he would be competing in the UFC, fighting on a massive pay-per-view card in his second appearance with the promotion after debuting earlier in the year in Mexico City.

Propped up against the headboard in his New Orleans hotel room just a few days prior to his preliminary card clash with Robert Valentin, the 23-year-old middleweight from Cameroon left me speechless with his response.

“I don’t know what I would tell that person,” began Gautier, shaking his head and laughing at the thought of someone bringing those possibilities to him back in 2020. “(I would probably say something) like ‘There is no place here to have this kind of dream.’”

But Gautier’s teenage reality is one that is far more common for innumerable individuals, which makes the fact that a little over four years after making his professional debut — and just over three years after touching down in the United Kingdom — he’s set to make the walk to the Octagon for the second time this weekend even more incredible.

When asked what it means to have turned those hallucinations into reality and now be chasing tangible dreams, it was Gautier’s turn to be left without words.

“I don’t know if I will find a word, but I’m going to try,” he said, taking a beat to express things as best as he could. “Now I’m just trying to live the moment; to be here in the moment. I don’t want to be somewhere (else) or think about the future; I don’t want to know my emotion now.

That was the mindset Gautier carried with him into his first appearance of the year back in March, when he walked into the Octagon at Arena CDMX in Mexico City and stopped Jose Daniel Medina in the first round to collect his first UFC victory.

“In the moment, it just felt like a normal day in my gym,” he said about his debut, which came six months after he earned his place on the roster with a second-round stoppage win over Yura Naito on Season 8 of Dana White’s Contender Series. “I didn’t put myself in the UFC — I was in my gym.

He was facing a fellow Contender Series graduate, but not one that earned his place in the middleweight ranks with a victory.

Medina was given a contract following his loss to Magomed Gadzhiyasulov on the sixth season of the annual talent search series, as the Colombian impressed UFC President Dana White with his durability, toughness and overall moxie. Though he landed on the wrong side of the scorecards in his first trip into the Octagon, “Chicho” forced his opponent, Zachary Reese, beyond the first round for just the second time in his career, and made him battle hard for 15 minutes for the first time.

That durability prompted Medina to suggest he was incapable of being knocked out, an idea that Gautier took issue with even before they stepped into the Octagon together.

“To be honest, I don’t believe someone can be that tough,” he said in regard to Medina’s pre-fight assertion. “People are tough, but if you connect in the right moment, the right place — you’re just human. He used to say no one can knock him out, but obviously everyone can get knocked out.

“Yeah, one really good knee,” Gautier agreed, chuckling.

Following the victory, Gautier and the crew from Manchester Top Team flew from Mexico City to Las Vegas, and the next day, the ascending prospect was right back in the gym.

“I don’t think of this as work,” offered Gautier, who carries a 7-1 record with six straight stoppage victories into Saturday’s televised preliminary card pairing with Valentin. “It’s not a job — I like to do it; no one forces me to do it.

Though he’s solely focused on the task at hand, the powerful middleweight is fully confident in his ability to dispatch Valentin the same way he did Medina earlier this year, and should things play out that way, Gautier wants to get right back to work, immediately.

“To be honest, after I knock Robert out this Saturday, I just want the UFC to give me more fights,” began Gautier. “I’m still learning, so I need more experience, so just let me fight. I’m young! I have nothing else to do, so keep me busy!

“No problem,” Gautier said with a smile. “I just want to be busy, getting more experience; more and more and more. I just want to fight.”