Ecuadorian welterweight contender Michael Morales may be one of the youngest athletes vying for a title shot in the crowded 170-pound division, but the undefeated 26-year-old says he’s ready to prove beyond any doubt that he’s ready for a shot at undisputed gold.

Morales takes on fellow contender Sean Brady in a mouth-watering clash at VeChain UFC 322 in Madison Square Garden on Saturday night, and Morales has acknowledged the raised stakes ahead of his 19th professional fight.

“It’s a very intense week, but so far so good,” he told UFC.com after checking in at the fighter hotel this week. “The job right now is to make weight. That's the one thing. It's the fight before the fight, and just that's what's remaining, you know? You make that weight and you go do your job.”

The job this weekend is a significantly difficult one. Brady has an 18-1 career record and comes into this weekend’s fight fresh off a dominant performance and late finish of former champion Leon Edwards in March.

The Philadelphia-native is widely considered to be the best grappler in the division, and he presents a clear danger to Morales’s undefeated record as well as his championship aspirations.

Morales is well-aware of what Brady brings to the table, but it’s exactly the sort of fight he’s been craving as he looks to fight his way to the front of the queue to fight for the 170-pound title next year.

Fighting for a belt would mean the world to Morales, not just for the chance to capture the prestige of a UFC title, but also to help fly the flag for Ecuador on the biggest stage in the sport. It’s something he does every time he makes the walk to the Octagon as he proudly represents both his homeland of Ecuador and his adopted home of Mexico.

“(Ecuador is) home. It’s where I’m from. It’s where I’m very proud to represent as a place,” he explained. “And also Mexico, because Mexico will be with me. I will be carrying the flag of both places. These are the places that welcome me, and both of them have given me and gifted me so much to be where I am now.

Throughout his sit-down interview, Morales’s responses revealed a singular focus. This fight is a job with a clear goal at the end of it, and he’s very clear on how he sees the night panning out.

And if he gets the win, expect a clear, decisive call for a title shot next. For Morales, it’s the only logical next step.