
The 34-year-old Manchester man has been one of the most criminally underrated and under-appreciated fighters on the roster for the past couple years, largely because he favors technique over flash, performance over talking mess, and had rounded out his winning streak with victories over other divisional stalwarts with a similar makeup in Edson Barboza, Dan Ige, and Josh Emmet.

Pico, on the other hand, was making his promotional debut after a scheduled bout with undefeated Russian contender Movsar Evloev in Abu Dhabi went by the boards. The 28-year-old was one of the most hyped prospects in the history of the sport when he first signed with Bellator, and after some struggles early in his career, Pico had put together a 9-1 run heading into his first UFC appearance, where his only loss came as a result of an injury.

He was the new blood, the ballyhooed arrival set to stamp himself as the No. 1 contender and make a case for a championship opportunity against Alexander Volkanovski.

Murphy didn’t get the memo.

A little over three minutes into their co-main event pairing, Murphy waited as Pico approached, then spun to his right, driving an elbow straight into his opponent’s forehead, knocking him out instantly.

This felt like the Fight Gods rewarding someone that had toiled in the shadows with the kind of performance and result that made him undeniable, that forced all those that had previously chosen to overlook him to pay attention. Make no mistake about it, this was pure skill and perfectly timed, and Murphy has always been a brilliant technician and tactician inside the Octagon, but sometimes the stars align and give the people that merit opportunities and recognition that kind of moment that leaves everyone slack-jawed and stuck admitting “I owe you an apology. I wasn’t really familiar with your game.”

Now folks understand that Murphy is a bad, bad man.

Honorable Mentions: Elijah Smith, Joseph Morales, Baisangur Susurkaev, Uran Satybaldiev, Yizha, Kyle Daukaus

Elliott was a part of the flyweight division when it was first introduced in the UFC way back in 2012, signed by the promotion a month after the division debuted in Sydney, Australia. He posted a 2-4 record over his first six appearances, fighting a rugged slate where his losses came to a trio of title challengers — John Dodson, Ali Bagautinov, and Joseph Benavidez — and ex-Bellator champ Zach Makovsky, and was released.

He returned as part of the cast of Season 24 of The Ultimate Fighter, where the winner of the tournament would garner a championship opportunity against Demetrious “Mighty Mouse” Johnson. Elliott won the competition and then gave Johnson one of the more challenging fights of his lengthy reign, and he’s been a fixture in the Top 15 ever since.

Those that follow the sport closely know that Elliott has dealt with some personal losses and difficult situations during the last handful of years, including the passing of Robert Follis, and his bout against Asakura was his first in 20 months after he pressed pause on his career to spend serious time with his daughter.

So for him to come back, awkward as ever inside the Octagon, and turn in a tremendous performance against a heralded standout who had fought for the title in his promotional debut eight months earlier and finish him with a slick mounted guillotine, you just have to give it up to him. It was one of those efforts that instantly reminded you that Elliott is a nightmare assignment for anyone in the division and capable of being a serious threat on his best days.

The Missouri native has now won consecutive contests by submission, four of his last five, and six of his last eight, with his losses coming against Top 10 opposition at the time.

Honorable Mentions: Austin Bashi vs John Yannis, Tatsuro Taira vs HyunSung Park, Anthony Hernandez vs Roman Dolidze, Morales vs Alibi Idiris, Susurkaev vs Eric Nolan, Satybaldiev vs Diyar Nurgozhay

With just under a minute remaining in the opening round, Kazama tried to lock up a triangle from the bottom. As soon as it was close, Smith gathered him and hoisted him aloft, adjusting his body to bring his Japanese foe thundering to the canvas with considerable impact and force. The second he began to elevate him, you knew how it was going to end up, and you could not look away.

This was Smith’s second win already this year and the kind of effort that stamps the recent Dana White’s Contender Series grad as a serious long-range prospect in the bantamweight division.

Honorable Mentions: Rinya Nakamura vs Nathan Fletcher, Uros Medic vs Gilbert Urbina, Joselyne Edwards vs Priscila Cachoeira, Christian Leroy Duncan vs Eryk Anders, Carlos Prates vs Geoff Neal, Murphy vs Aaron Pico, Yizha vs Westin Wilson, Daukaus vs Michel Pereira, Charles Johnson vs Lone’er Kavanagh

Duncan earned the decision win — his third straight victory and fifth in six fights since graduating from Dana White’s Contender Series in 2022 — but Rebecki lost no ground in the loaded and competitive lightweight division.