
Walker is a good test for the now 27-year-old Sunkin Fight representative, as he’s been in there with a host of the top talents to pass through the light heavyweight division in the last several years, and has the power to do away with anyone that isn’t sharp and focused on fight night. He’s without a victory in three fights, but he’s thrived against opponents in this range over the years, so it’ll be interesting to see how things shake out here.

Cortes Acosta is 7-1 in the UFC since earning his place on the roster with a first-round stoppage win on the sixth season of Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) back in 2022. His lone setback came in his third Octagon appearance against Marcos Rogerio de Lima in a fight where “Pezao” played to his strengths and the Dominican’s weakness, wrestling him to the canvas and basically keeping him there for long enough stretches to collect a win.

“Salsa Boy” never really got mentioned in this space in the past because — and I’m going to be brutally honest here — he was largely earning decision wins over struggling competitors and I just assumed another veteran or more skilled foe would halt his run of success, thereby showing where his ceiling in the division rests. But after knocking out Ryan Spann earlier this year, the 33-year-old out-worked Serghei Spivac at UFC 316 in June, showing improved ring generalship and awareness, as well as good takedown defense in pushing his winning streak to five.

Situations like this come up from time-to-time in this sport — someone starts building a winning streak and the consensus opinion is that they will only climb so high in their division. But then they pass that point, and the next point, and that’s where we are with Cortes Acosta as he heads into this weekend’s fight with Sergei Pavlovich. He’s stationed at No. 6 in the rankings, and if he topples the third-ranked Russian on Saturday, he enters the title conversation.

After dropping consecutive contests to Tom Aspinall and Alexander Volkov, Pavlovich got things moving in the right direction again with a unanimous decision win over Jairzinho Rozenstruik in February to move to 19-3 overall. As important as it was for the former interim title challenger to get back into the win column, his performance was a far cry from the series of maulings he handed out on his way to facing Aspinall at UFC 295, meaning he too heads into this one with some questions that still need to be answered.

Cortes Acosta has a sharp jab, solid power, and has shown considerable growth in terms of his overall tactical approach inside the Octagon over the course of his eight-fight stint on the roster. He’s on the cusp of cracking the Top 5 and I’m done pretending to know when this slow and steady march up the divisional ranks is going to end.

Instead, I’m just going to give him his due and enjoy the ride.

If you’ve followed this series or any of the DWCS coverage here on the website over the last year, you know that I am profoundly high on last year’s graduating class, which includes the unbeaten Kavanagh, who makes his third UFC appearance — and second start in China — against veteran Charles Johnson on Saturday.

Kavanagh opened Season 8 with a first-round knockout win over fellow unbeaten prospect An Tuan Ho, who has since bounced back with a quick finish of his own and is slated to return to the UFC APEX later in Season 9. He earned a win in his debut over Jose Ochoa, who then knocked out Cody Durden and gave Asu Almabayev plenty to deal with on short notice a couple weeks ago, before getting the better of Felipe dos Santos on the scorecards last time out.

Though he comes in off a loss to Ramazan Temirov in March, “InnerG” had won four straight prior to that, including handing Azat Maksum his first loss and stopping current No. 1 contender Joshua Van. The former LFA champ is a good wrestler, has strong conditioning, and doesn’t go away easily in the Octagon.