
Jack Della Maddalena claimed the welterweight title with a unanimous decision win over Belal Muhammad that showcased both the depth of his skills and the tremendous intangibles he carries with him into battle every time out.

The Dana White’s Contender Series grad has always been known for having outstanding striking and mixing his levels well, but it was his ability to keep things upright and never get swept under by the pressure of Muhammad that really carried him through on Saturday. He took the center of the Octagon and forced Muhammad to take more backwards steps than he had in any of his recent efforts, quickly breaking free or scurrying back to his feet in the moments where the champion looked to grapple.

Throughout the contest, he maintained a steady attack, varying his shots and targets, never giving Muhammad too much time where he wasn’t forced to deal with something coming his way, which is precisely what you need to do against a pressure fighter. It was an outstanding performance and expertly crafted gameplan by Della Maddalena and the Scrappy MMA crew, giving Australia and the Contender Series each their third UFC champion.

Reigning lightweight champion Islam Makhachev has made it clear that he wants to move up to face Della Maddalena at some point later this year. If that happens, we could get some electric pairings from amongst the host of contenders queued up at welterweight in the back half of the year, as Shavkat Rakhmonov, Sean Brady, Ian Machado Garry, and the winner of the forthcoming bout between former champ Kamaru Usman and Joaquin Buckley join Muhammad in trying to cement their place in the hierarchy.

Makhachev moving up also brings uncertainty about how things will line up at lightweight, though by no means is that a bad thing.

There is an abundance of talent congregated towards the top end of the division, and we should end up with some combination of bouts featuring ex-featherweight champ Ilia Topuria, former lightweight ruler Charles Oliveira, top contenders Arman Tsarukyan, Justin Gaethje, and Max Holloway. Mix in the likes of Dan Hooker, Mateusz Gamrot, and Paddy Pimblett, and you have a considerable collection of talent to pull from in order to get things lined up at lightweight.

While UFC 315 wrapped with a welterweight title fight, this past weekend’s return to Montreal was a massive night in the women’s flyweight division more than anything else.

Yes, Brad Katona and Kyle Prepolec lost on Saturday but, on the whole, athletes from the host nation went 4-2, with Jasudavicius and Marc-Andre Barriault collecting Performance of the Night bonuses, Mike Malott garnering a nasty second-round knockout win over Charles Radtke, and Aiemann Zahabi closing out the night for the Canadians with a unanimous decision victory over Jose Aldo, at home, to extend his winning streak to six. Mix in Gillian Robertson’s dominant showing against Marina Rodriguez and Serhiy Sidey collecting his second straight win a couple weeks back in Des Moines, Iowa, and it’s been a quality few weeks for Canadians inside the Octagon.

Benoit Saint Denis remains the kind of all-action fighter that is a perfect fit in the lightweight rankings. He’s guaranteed excitement no matter whom he’s matched up against, is skilled and dogged enough to test and push those stationed ahead of him in the Top 15, and an outstanding litmus test for anyone trying to work their way into the rankings at his expense.

Navajo Stirling continues to show improvements and offer glimpses of a bright future. It took him some time to really settle into his bout with Ivan Erslan, but he got there and got the win, moving to 2-0 in the UFC in the process.

Daniel Santos is one of those competitors that is worth tuning in for every time he’s scheduled to compete. “Willycat” earned his third straight win on Saturday, fighting with his trademark devil may care approach, and whether he stays at featherweight or returns to the 135-pound ranks, he is sure to deliver another entertaining effort next time out.

Bekzat Almakhan kicked things off with a brilliant knockout win over Katona, sticking the Canadian with a sharp uppercut 60 seconds into their bout. He gave an excellent account of himself on short notice against Umar Nurmagomedov last year in his debut, and showed on Saturday that he’s another promising, young talent to keep close tabs on in the division.