
After earning the interim middleweight title against Kelvin Gastelum, Adesanya had a chance to unify the belt against then-champion Robert Whittaker, in his adopted home country of Australia. But as Adesanya made his walk to the Octagon, it seemed like he owned the place.

Received with a mix of boos and cheers, Adesanya huddled up with three dancers before they broke out into a choreographed hip-hop performance right outside the tunnel. The confidence to put on a show before the fight even starts, then to win in the fashion that he did, makes Adesanya’s UFC 243 walkout one to remember.

As McGregor, the biggest name in all of combat sports, was making his first walk to the Octagon in search of UFC gold, he came out to a rendition of “The Foggy Dew,” his trademark walkout song, yet this time it was performed live in venue by none other than Sinéad O’Connor herself.

Entering the Octagon second, Mendes also walked out to a live performance from Aaron Lewis, which deserves just as much acclaim as O’Connor’s. Despite falling in the shadow of McGregor’s giant fanbase, the rendition of “Country Boy” was well-performed and gave Mendes’ fans the same captivating feeling as “The Foggy Dew” for McGregor’s.

As the horn, that in the film marked the start of the purge, blared, Ortega and his corner walked to the Octagon in masks worn in the films. Creating an unsettling, but mesmerizing, atmosphere, Ortega did well to sway neutral fans in his favor before the toughest fight of his UFC career against Alexander Volkanovski.

The 8,500+ fans in attendance at M&S Bank Arena sang together in unison, supporting their hometown fighter as he made the walk ahead of his main event bout against Stephen Thompson. Unaware by the amount of support he would be getting, the feeling Till must’ve had in those three minutes is unimaginable.

One of the most entertaining personalities, Covington has come into his villain role in recent years, and the getting the “You Suck” chants from the crowd fits perfectly for that character. Whether you’re chanting at Covington or Masvidal, it gets the crowd involved and brings a smile to Covington’s face, contributing to his confident, but dominant, performances inside the Octagon.

At UFC 292, Sean O'Malley stepped into the brightest spotlight of his mixed martial arts career, facing then-bantamweight champion Aljamain Sterling in New Jersey. Known for rising to the occasion and consistently silencing his critics, O'Malley lived up to the hype once again, making his walkout song, "Superstar" by Lupe Fiasco, a perfect anthem for his first shot at UFC gold.