
Merab Dvalishvili is an absolute monster. “The Machine” pushed his winning streak to 13 straight to close out UFC 316, submitting Sean O’Malley in the late stages of the third round to add to his incredible run of success.

He controlled the opening two frames, getting the better of the striking exchanges while wrestling well and pushing a torrid pace. Late in the third, after Dvalishvili dragged O’Malley back to the canvas, he laced his arms around the neck, tightened his squeeze, and forced the former champion to tap.

That’s consecutive successful title defenses in the first half of 2025 for the 34-year-old Georgian champion. He’s won 13 straight overall and continues to improve each time out, transforming himself into an unstoppable force inside the Octagon.

Jean Silva picked up his second win in eight weeks on Saturday night at UFC 314, outworking and ultimately submitting Bryce Mitchell in their featherweight grudge match.

Mitchell came out landing well, but Silva was never bothered by the activity coming his way, finishing the opening round by chasing submissions that had the American in trouble. In the second, Silva marched Mitchell down with bravado, finally putting him on the canvas with a right hand and then clamping onto a deep choke as Mitchell worked to his feet in search of a takedown.

Ignacio Baamonde collected the biggest win of his UFC career, punching his ticket to the Top 15 with a first-round submission win over Jalin Turner.

Expected to be a striking contest between two of the longest fighters in the lightweight division, Bahamondes initiated the clinch, but ended up on his back as the two men spilled to the canvas. It wasn’t an issue though, as the Valle Flow Striking standout quickly worked back to full guard and then attacked a triangle choke, shifting his angle to sink the hold in deeper and draw out the tap.

That’s now three straight wins, three straight finishes, and victories in six of seven for the ascending 27-year-old. Welterweight champ Belal Muhammad called “Nacho” the best striker in the UFC, but he showed on Saturday that he’s got slick skills on the ground too.