
“I never thought something like this would be a nice reset button, and it hit that button hard,” Yanez said with a chuckle, reflecting on nearly a year on the sidelines as he readies to make his return to action against Cristian Quinonez at the UFC APEX. “I was spinning in circle for a second, trying to get my tires on the road and it was nuts for a second.

“Everything happens for a reason, and thankfully for me, I have a lot of great support around me, and that helped out a lot,” added Yanez, who landed on the wrong side of a split decision verdict to Daniel Marcos last time out. “It was crazy for your boy for a little bit — I was getting 10-8’ed by life for these last couple years.”

Though he can laugh about it now, the last year has been particularly challenging for the soon-to-be 32-year-old fighter.

But after losing last December, Yanez wasn’t able to book his next fight for some time as an undisclosed medical issue kept him out of competition. It didn’t keep him out of the gym or from helping teammates and training partners get ready to make the walk, but when it came time for him to get the green light to step back into the fray, he kept encountering reds, leading to a great deal of frustration building within the usually easy-going and lighthearted Dr. Pepper fan.

“It was real difficult because it started making my timeline longer and dragging out, and on top of that, I felt like I was good to go, and that brought a lot of frustration,” said Yanez, who suffered the injury in question in the first quarter of the year. “Sitting back and watching my training partner fight two times and I hadn’t even fought once, it’s like, ‘What’s going on here?’

“I was training, coaching a lot of fighters, watching them fight and it’s like, ‘I helped them get here. I’m the guy that was wrestling with them, I’m the guy that was sparring with them,” he added, shaking his head with a smile on his face. “I was still training, still doing jiu jitsu, sparring, everything. I felt fine. I don’t know why it took so long for me to get medically cleared.”

After stewing in that frustration, the proud father of two opted to shift his point of view on his situation and started working to make sure he was as prepared as possible for when he finally got cleared and booked his next fight. The early “doom and gloom” he navigated gave way to seeing an opportunity, and following a little more time training with a few different people, Yanez settled in to working with coach Sayif Saud and the team at Fortis MMA in Dallas.

For Yanez, it was the first time things felt like they did prior to the passing of his long-time coach Saul Soliz, who died suddenly in 2021. Having known each other since his days on the regional circuit and being just a 4-hour drive away, connecting with “The General” was easy and has given Yanez some of the consistency he’s been searching for these last couple years.

“I did bounce around a little bit,” began Yanez, who understandably struggled to find the right fit in the wake of Coach Soliz’ passing. “I was in Mexico with Diego (Lopes), and I love Pancho (Francisco Grasso) — love him, he’s phenomenal — and I haven’t run into anybody I don’t like, but for me, (working with Coach Sayif) is Dallas, it’s Texas, so it’s at worst a 4-hour drive for me. Being able to drive up here and drive home is pretty cool. I didn’t want to be traveling a month-and-a-half, being away (that long). The intensity was different, and it made me feel like back in the day with Coach Saul, that missing piece.

This time, however, it’s been different and prompted Yanez to lean into his veteran status a little bit more, even if he’s still trying to fight it off to a certain degree.

He laughed, clearly at ease as he heads towards his bout with Quinonez, even if he’s not fully on board with turning 32 at the end of the month.

After being, as he put it, “10-8’ed by life” lately, the prospect of stepping back into the Octagon, stepping back out under the lights, and standing in with Quinonez on Saturday brings a different kind of smile to Yanez’s face and fills his voice with a different kind of excitement.