Malcolm Wellmaker has been one of the breakout stars of 2025, arriving in the Octagon from Season 8 of Dana White’s Contender Series to deliver a pair of punishing first-round knockouts that quite literally changed his life.

The first came in April against Cameron Saaiman and allowed him to quit his job as a union pipefitter. The second came less than two months later in Atlanta, Georgia, two hours and change down I-20W from his hometown of Augusta, against durable veteran Kris Moutinho. Those two wins pushed his record to 10-0, earned him accolades and praise, both within the MMA community and, more importantly, in his own community as well.

“There’s these two sides of the world I’m involved in now,” began Wellmaker, who makes his third appearance of the year this weekend at VeChain UFC 322 in New York City, where he takes on fellow DWCS grad Cody Haddon. “One is the world stage where it’s the UFC and my name gets tossed around by the critics asking where I fall in the rankings, what my real potential is and how much of an impact can I make on the division.

“And then my real life, my everyday life, where I go to my mom’s house every weekend to hang out with my nephews, every picture they’re in, they do because they wanna be like me,” he added, striking the customary closed fist pose everyone makes when taking pictures with fighters. “They tell all their friends in school how I’m this famous fighter and I knock people out, and because of that, my life, (everyone around me’s) lives are forever changed, and it’s not because of what I will accomplish in my career, it’s because of what I’ve already done.”

The final piece of that statement is a call-back to something Wellmaker posted on Instagram at the end of September: a series of pictures chronicling his journey from being a 16-year-old poised to head in the wrong direction in life to winning his UFC debut at age 30 and earning the bonus that allowed him to walk away from his construction job.

Asked where the 16-year-old kid in the first picture was headed, Wellmaker explained that like so many others, he and his close friends idolized their peers who were spending more time in the streets, “living the harder life” as he put it.

“When I took to MMA, my other group of friends that I grew up with, admiring the gang bangers and drug dealers, they started leaning heavier into that lifestyle when I started leaning heavier into MMA,” continued Wellmaker, who had a friend from home that is now confined to a wheelchair after being shot in the back in attendance at his fight in Atlanta earlier this year. “We had a lot of friends we looked up to and admired for living a more dangerous and crazier lifestyle, and MMA was the thing I chose rather than choosing that other route like my other close friends.”

As much as his picking the better path makes for a great story, what truly stands out about Wellmaker is that when he says he would be happy with the success he’s had already and gladly go back to his construction job, you can feel that he means it.

“I know a lot of people saw Conor (McGregor) get big with the trash talk and stuff like that, and it’s almost like what trash talk was to Conor, it’s what being genuine is to me,” he said with a broad smile. “It’s what makes people like me, and fortunately, it’s just who I am; I don’t have to put on a front or fake it.”

While the genuineness is definitely why some people like him, the fact that he’s detonated a right hand on the jaw of a pair of established opponents to kick off his UFC tenure has brought some people to Team Wellmaker as well.

It’s rare that a first-year fighter is added to a card of this magnitude and the MMA community reacts with mass excitement, but such was the case when Wellmaker was first announced to be facing Canadian Serhiy Sidey this weekend in New York City. Similarly, it’s why there was an audible, collective sigh of disappointment less than 48 hours later when Sidey announced he’d suffered an injury and would no longer be able to share the Octagon with the rookie standout.

Thankfully, fellow Season 8 graduate Cody Haddon was quick to raise his hand to replace Sidey, keeping Wellmaker on this weekend’s historic fight card, and giving the ascending bantamweight what he believes is an even greater test on Saturday evening.

“I like the Cody Haddon fight more, to be honest with you,” said Wellmaker. “I think he’s more exciting, I think he’s more of a dog, I think he’s more violent, his instincts are when he gets tired, he walks forward and throws volume, and everybody knows that’s what I want anyway!

“I wanna show the world that and I wanna show myself that. I am looking forward to that day, and any one of these days could be that day. Cody Haddon could be that guy. Kris Moutinho could have been that guy, and I was ready to go there, so if it goes there, I look forward to showing everybody that I’m more than a one-punch knockout artist.”

“Let’s top off this rookie year with something magnificent and do that test later!” he added with a cackle. “That would be my ideal story. I want another first-round knockout, and if I do it with the right hook, it just adds to the lore of my knockout power.”