On the mats in an undisclosed large gym, Alonzo Menifield had an “a-ha” moment that led to him shifting his training back to Fortis MMA in Dallas.

“I was at a training facility — I won’t name names — but I was in this big old gym and I realized, ‘They do this at Fortis, grind hard like this. Why won’t I just go home, be with my family, and train?’” Menifield said on Wednesday afternoon at Media Day in Seattle, where he’s set to make his 2025 debut on Saturday against promotional newcomer Julius Walker. “So I’m back at Fortis. Appreciate you, Fortis.

Menifield was one of the standout camp’s crop of homegrown talents that graduated to the UFC through the initial seasons of Dana White’s Contender Series, following up his win over Daniel Jolly in the first season with a pair of wins under the LFA banner and a first-round stoppage win over Dashawn Boatright on the opening bout of Season 2.

He logged a number of appearances inside the UFC banner with Saud and the Fortis team in his corner before opting to relocate to Colorado and work with Pat Barry for his last couple fights. He continued traveling to different locations, getting different looks, and following his moment of clarity, made the decision to return home.

“Me and Sayif have always been good,” he said of the reunion with his old team. “I never left on bad terms; I just told him I needed to expand, and that’s what I did, traveling around, finding out what I can add to me.

This weekend’s short-notice pairing with Walker has been a blessing, as well.

Originally scheduled to debut next month in London against unbeaten prospect Oumar Sy, Menifield found himself without a dance partner when Sy suffered a leg injury and was forced out of the March 22nd date at The O2 Arena.

“I think they wanted to extend it out five more weeks,” Menifield said of the fight with Sy. “So that would have been like 10 weeks, waiting, and this opportunity came up and I was like, ‘Yeah, I’ll do it.’

While the fight location and nationality of his opponent that changed, the general tenor of the fight remains the same, as he’ll still make the walk this weekend to share the cage with an undefeated prospect, one with skills Menifield believes are similar to those he would have had to deal with in facing Sy in London.

“I feel like it’s similar to the opponent I was gonna fight in London, maybe he’s a little flashier, but we’ll see,” he said, offering an assessment of the Walker, who arrives with a 6-0 record that includes wins over TUF alum Nyle Bartling, UFC vet Bevon Lewis, and regional fixture Myron Dennis. “I think this is an exciting fight as far as the opportunity for both of us, but for him especially.

“Yeah, I know the hype of coming in, feeling like you’ve got to live up to this name or responsibility for him,” he said of Walker. “For me, I think about me coming up, it was all just go.

As the veteran in this twosome, Menifield will be looking to find the balance between “just go” and “settle down,” doing whatever it takes to get himself back in the win column.