
Losing three fights in a row is often viewed as the final straw before a fighter is invited to try new pastures. But for Peruvian lightweight Claudio Puelles, Saturday night’s fight at Noche UFC offers him the chance to showcase the latest evolution of his fighting talent.

After defeat in the final of The Ultimate Fighter Latin America Season 3 back in 2016, Puelles reeled off five straight victories, with three of them coming via his signature finish, the kneebar.

But a TKO loss to Dan Hooker at Madison Square Garden halted his win streak, and a split-decision loss to France’s Fares Ziam in Mexico City in February 2024 saw him suffer back-to-back losses for the first time in his career.

Since then, Puelles has taken time to heal his injuries, work on his game, and spend some time in a different UFC role, as part of the Spanish language broadcast team.

But now, after 18 months away from competition, Puelles is fully fit and ready to return, and he’s excited to be the one in the Octagon competing, rather than sitting outside it, calling the action.

“It’s very exciting,” he said.

That experience working on the broadcast side hasn’t just been a distraction from his injury layoff. It’s actually developed his knowledge base and sharpened his analytical skills, which have helped him as a fighter.

“I’m around a lot more UFC events than I used to be,” he explained.

The time away also gave him the chance to fully heal up from a broken hand sustained in his loss to Ziam. He admitted that, while fighters usually want to bounce back as quickly as possible, he was careful to take his time and make sure he was fully recovered before launching himself back into training again.

“I did break my hand. That was February of last year. It was a good fight, but it ended up going to a split decision,” he recalled.

Puelles will take on former The Ultimate Fighter Brazil alum Joaquim Silva, an 11-fight veteran who is making his return from a 16-month layoff. Despite his lengthy UFC tenure, Puelles admitted that he wasn’t fully up to speed on his opponent until he dug deeper into the Brazilian’s fight record.

“At the beginning, I thought he was a grappler because of his name, like he's like ‘Netto BJJ’. I thought he was a grappler, but apparently, he's not!” he grinned.

"But I do know he's a tough opponent. I do know he's tough, he's been around. So I think he's gonna bring a good fight come Saturday. I'm sure of that... I’m going in there to win the fight, trying to finish. From the first round, I’m going to be there in his face. He can expect a tough fight, for sure.”

In preparation for his return against Silva, Puelles has been looking to round out his skillset. Seven of his 12 career wins have come via submission, and he spent much of his camp sharpening his striking to bring that up to speed.

“I have a new boxing coach, Artem Kosminov. I've been training nonstop with him since February,” he explained. "I also have a new grappling coach, who also happens to be my cousin. He's also here with me in my corner. Both of them are.

“We've been analyzing the game, breaking down things, breaking down tape, training specifically for the opponent I have. So, yeah, it's been like a whole study case, and we've been doing a lot, trying to not leave anything to luck.”

Puelles also spent time with Rafael Fiziev, who was suitably impressed with his improvements.

“He showed up three weeks ago, so towards the end of my camp I had some very nice sparring sessions with him... He's an amazing training partner, amazing guy. I love the energy with him. And yes, I got to test some of my striking, some of my training, with him, and it’s been going pretty good... He told me himself, ‘Wow, you've really gotten a lot better.’ I kind of knew it, but it's good to have that reassurance from someone in the top 10 in my weight class.”

With a new-look coaching team and the backing of one of the best strikers in the division, Puelles heads to Noche UFC confident that his improvements will shine through on fight night.

“The evolution is going to show on Saturday,” he said.

And, despite the record books showing Puelles going into Saturday night’s fight off the back of a loss, he doesn’t view it that way, with his split-decision defeat to Ziam actually boosting his confidence, rather than diminishing it.

“To me, I don’t feel like I'm coming in on a bad moment,” he said.