Da’Mon Blackshear has fought nothing but high caliber fighters since he made his debut in 2022. It has been a rollercoaster, full of ups and downs, but the bantamweight has been able to gain the experience of being in the Octagon with fighters such as Youssef Zalal, Farid Basharat, Mario Bautista and Montel Jackson, to name a few.

“I think it's very important that I was able to go in there and get good experience and to challenge myself and grow every single time I step in there,” Blackshear said. “I learned the lesson every single time I've been in the cage. So, win or lose, I’m learning, improving and getting better every single time.”

“The Monster” got to end 2024 on a high note after getting back in the win column with his first-round submission over Cody Stamann. That’s not the first time fans witnessed Blackshear’s skills on the ground. The 30-year-old is one of three fighters in UFC history that have earned a Twister submission. He has nine other submission victories to his name, including six by rear-naked choke.

Three years into his UFC career, Blackshear said each time he steps into fight week he continues to get more and more comfortable. And now, he’s ready to step things up and he prepares to face Cody Gibson, who competed on season 31 of The Ultimate Fighter.

Gibson comes into the fight on a two-fight win streak after defeating Chad Anheliger and Brian Kelleher. For Blackshear, it didn’t matter whose name was on the contract, he was ready to go, no matter what.

“It didn't matter who they gave me,” Blackshear said. “The person I'm fighting, it really didn't stick out. It was just a different challenge. I look at him and I see his experience and he brings a different challenge than somebody else.”

Blackshear isn’t anticipating for the fight to go the full fifteen minutes, but he said he plans on dominating for however long the fight may go. Blackshear is eager to test himself against someone who fought his way back into the promotion after being released early on in his career.

“If I go out there and, honestly, I don't see it going past, two rounds, but it's all up to him,” Blackshear said. “If he is there and he's training, I get the best Cody Gibson I can possibly get, and I'm ready to face the best and beat the best. So, I hope he brings it. I'm ready to go.”

Even with all eyes focused on Gibson this weekend, Blackshear isn’t naive to know a win over him puts him one step closer to the ultimate goal.