
We saw the first title change of 2025, a Knockout of the Year contender courtesy of Mauricio Ruffy, and breakout efforts from newcomers and mainstays like.

The culmination of April’s initial event is a clash between Top 10 featherweights Josh Emmett and Lerone Murphy that is one of several critical fights in the 145-pound weight class this month.

One month after turning 40, Emmett makes his return to the Octagon, seeking to defend his place in the pecking order and put forth another blistering effort that may potentially afford him the opportunity to fight forward next time out. In his last appearance at UFC 296, the Team Alpha Male representative dispatched Bryce Mitchell, advancing his record to 19-4 in the process, and reminding everyone of the gnarly power he possesses.

The only fight in this collection without a ranked competitor present, this veteran pairing makes the list because there is no feasible way this isn’t an absolute slobberknocker and I want to give Darren Elkins and Julian Erosa their flowers.

Elkins, who turns 41 in May, is in Year 16 (!!) on the UFC roster, having debuted with an injury TKO win over Duane Ludwig at UFC Live: Vera vs. Jones on March 21, 2010. Everything about that sentence is preposterous at this point, as is the fact that despite 29 fights and innumerable grueling battles, “The Damage” continues turning in Fight of the Night-winning efforts, as he did last time out against Daniel Pineda when he picked up his 29th career victory.

Erosa hasn’t made as many walks or been in as many chaotic battles, but that’s not for a lack of trying. The former TUF and Contender Series competitor is pathologically incapable of being in a boring fight, has earned consecutive first-round stoppage wins by guillotine, and is the heir to the “count on this guy to give you everything he’s got” throne Elkins has occupied for the last decade and change.

Featherweight is so stacked right now that a proven stud like Dan Ige sits at No. 15 in the rankings and Sean Woodson, who is on a seven-fight unbeaten streak remains on the outside of the rankings looking in. At UFC 314, they face off in a bout that is guaranteed to be entertaining as all get out.

The 33-year-old Ige is one of those competitors where you can’t base your impression of him as a fighter on his record, as he’s the ultimate “context matters” guy in the 145-pound weight class. While he’s just 3-6 over his last nine and 10-8 overall in the UFC, the Hawaiian has only lost to divisional standouts, fighting all of them to the final horn while making things miserable for them the whole way through.

Remember: this is the guy that came off the couch on four hours’ notice to push Diego Lopes harder than anyone has pushed the Brazilian title hopeful to date.

Woodson is someone that should be getting a lot more love and attention than he has heading into UFC 314 (and overall) given that he’s 7-1-1 in nine UFC starts and hasn’t dropped a fight in more than four years. The St. Louis native has been slowly working his way up the divisional ladder, most recently registering a first-round stoppage win over Fernando Padilla, and holds a victory over Youssef Zalal, who might be the only fighter in the division hotter than him at the moment.

Can Ige turn back the ascending Contender Series grad or will Woodson keep winning and force his way into the Top 15?

Former interim champ Yair Rodríguez welcomes world-class Brazilian Patricio Pitbull to the Octagon for the first time in this intriguing pairing that opens the pay-per-view main card in Miami midway through the month.

The 37-year-old Pitbull is the best fighter in Bellator history; a two-division champion who has gone 24-7 over the last 15 years, including title fight wins over Pat Curran, Michael Chandler, A.J. McKee, and Jeremy Kennedy. Long considered one of the very best athletes competing outside of the UFC, it’ll be interesting to finally see where the Brazilian superstar stacks up against the best the UFC has to offer.

We shift back to the featherweight division for this one, as Bryce Mitchell and Jean Silva square off in a grudge match where the bad blood escalated quickly.

The 30-year-old Mitchell has garnered more attention for things he’s said than the efforts he’s put forth of late, but the Arkansas native has been largely successful through his UFC run and earned his place in the Top 15. Last time out, “Thug Nasty” battered Kron Gracie at UFC 310, slamming him into the canvas and smashing him with elbows from top position to earn the third-round stoppage win and advance to 17-2 overall.

Like his fellow Fighting Nerd Prates, Silva arrives in the Sunshine State sporting a 4-0 mark inside the Octagon, having garnered bonuses in back-to-back efforts. Following last year’s two-week, two-division breakout with wins over Charles Jourdain and Drew Dober, the 28-year-old added a first-round stoppage win over Melsik Baghdasaryan to his resume earlier this year in Seattle to extend his overall winning streak to a dozen.

Silva called out Mitchell following that effort at Climate Pledge Arena, in part because of some of the things he’s said in recent months, but also, I’m sure, because it’s a smart shout to target a guy with a number next to his name that you think you can beat. His wish was granted, the two men got heated with one another at the UFC 314 press conference a couple weeks back, and now we’re going to see who emerges victorious when the rubber hits the road in Miami.

The co-main event of this month’s pay-per-view is a fascinating lightweight scrap between Michael Chandler and Paddy Pimblett that is sure to answer a lot of lingering questions about where each man stands in the division.

Chandler, who turns 39 a couple weeks after the event, has dropped back-to-back contests and four of his last five, leaving him at just 2-4 in six UFC starts. Now, two of those losses came against Charles Oliveira, one in a title fight, and the others were against Justin Gaethjeand Dustin Poirier, so it’s not like he’s getting beaten by schlepps, but there is surely pressure on “Iron Mike” to show he’s still amongst the best in the division when he makes the walk here.

All “Paddy the Baddy” has done since arriving in the UFC is post victories and prove his detractors wrong. Though he’s only competed once in each of the last two years, the 30-year-old Scouser showed his levels last time out at UFC 304, quickly putting King Green to sleep with a slick triangle choke that pushed his record to 6-0 inside the Octagon.

UFC 314 wraps in the featherweight division, with former champ Alexander Volkanovskisquaring off with streaking Brazilian Diego Lopes in a battle for the vacant title.

The Australian standout Volkanovski returns to action for the first time since losing the belt to Ilia Topuria last February, looking to end the first losing skid of his career and reaffirm his standing as the top featherweight in the world. He’s in a weird position here, having dropped three of his last four with a win over Rodriguez being his only triumph since wrapping his trilogy with Max Holloway, yet it’s nigh on impossible to envision his time as a championship-tier fighter just simply being done now.

Lopes has been a revelation in his first two years on the UFC roster, debuting with a tremendous showing on short-notice at UFC 288 before rattling off five straight wins to establish himself as one of the top threats in the 145-pound ranks. Following his “Only Gangsters Allowed” clash with Dan Ige at UFC 303, the surging contender out-hustled Brian Ortega at UFC 306 to climb into the Top 5.

Thinking through this matchup is such a challenge because Volkanovski has such a lengthy history as one of the best pound-for-pound fighters in the sport, but has been stopped quickly in each of his last two appearances, while Lopes has just continued winning with each step forward, but now takes another big step up. Something has got to give and I’ll be counting down the days until these two are standing opposite one another inside the Octagon at Kaseya Center on April 12.

Giga Chikadze has been a bit snake-bitten in recent years, suffering a pair of bad injuries that knocked him out of fights, wiping out any momentum he’d accrued while scuttling his chances to continue pressing forward in the division. He landed on the wrong side of things in a bout with Arnold Allen last time out at UFC 304 in Manchester, and will look to get back to the form that produced quality wins over Alex Caceres, Edson Barboza, and Cub Swanson in the past here.

David Onama ventures to Kansas City, where he trained and competed in the pre-UFC portion of his career, riding a three-fight winning streak. Now training at Factory X Muay Thai under Marc Montoya, the dangerous Ugandan has a chance to force his way into the Top 15 — or, at the very least, to a place on the doorstep — if he can extend his winning streak in this one.

The new main event in Kansas City carries massive implications in the welterweight division, as Ian Machado Garry takes on Carlos Prates.

Ireland’s Machado Garry competes off a loss for the first time in his career, having landed on the wrong side of the scorecards in his battle with fellow unbeaten Shavkat Rakhmonov last December. The talented 27-year-old is 15-1 overall, and has shown a deft ability to shine in all phases, and a willingness to follow whatever path will lead him to victory.

Last year’s top newcomer, Prates went 4-0 in 2024, closing out his rookie campaign with a first-round stoppage win over Neil Magny that carried him into the rankings. A graduate of Dana White’s Contender Series, Prates sports an 11-fight winning streak, with each of his last 10 victories coming inside the distance.

Originally slated to face Geoff Neal at UFC 314, Prates now gets the opportunity to force his way into the title conversation if he’s able to hand Machado Garry a second consecutive defeat. As for “The Future,” he has the chance to immediately affirm his place in the pecking order by turning back the streaking Fighting Nerds representative.