Dusko Todorovic will look to mark a career milestone when he returns to action at UFC Fight Night: Blanchfield vs. Barber.

Serbia’s Todorovic will compete in his ninth UFC fight, but the 31-year-old from Belgrade is counting Saturday night’s appearance as his 10th bout in the Octagon, having earned his spot on the UFC roster via Dana White’s Contender Series.

Todorovic heads into Saturday’s bout knowing that victory is a must. His last two outings ended in first-round defeats. The first, against England’s Christian Leroy Duncan, came as a result of a knee injury that put him on the shelf for a year.

Then, after his planned return against Edmen Shahbazyan was scrapped due to another injury, Todorovic finally returned last November against Mansur Abdul-Malik. Unfortunately for “Thunder,” it ended in an opening round TKO defeat.

That defeat prompted Todorovic to make some big changes, as he explained.

“I know the things I went through for that entire fight camp,” he said.

The new camp seems to have suited Todorovic well. He cut a happy, confident figure during his fight week interview, and said that he’s heading into his bout with Reese full of optimism.

“I do believe I'm 100 percent right now,” he said.

“Before” referred to a nightmare run of injuries that saw both knees require reconstructive surgery – one due to an in-fight injury against Duncan, the other due to being hit by a car.

Thankfully, Todorovic made a full recovery from both, and now feels like he’s in a better place mentally having gone through those testing times.

“It’s a bit strenuous on the mind,” he said.

“Even for that [canceled] fight with Shahbazyan, where I spent part of the camp preparing before injury, I still tried to take something positive from that, and what I learned in that short span of time.

Refreshed and reinvigorated, Todorovic hopes to kickstart a new run of formagainst Reese on Saturday night, though he acknowledges he’s facing solid opposition.

“He's a big guy,” he admitted.

“He's primarily a kickboxer who also has a good ground game. He's also a southpaw, he has good kicks and good clinch work. So all those things are very good traits to have. But again, I believe we did a good job prepping for this type of opponent. And yeah, as I said, I have a positive feeling about this weekend's fight.”

A win would snap Todorovic’s two-fight skid, but, more importantly, it would reinforce his belief that his changes have been for the better.

“It would mean a lot,” he said.

Victory would also help keep the spotlight on Serbian fighters on the world stage back in his homeland. UFC is getting increased exposure in Serbia, and Todorovic wants to help lead the way in bringing more notoriety to Serbian MMA, and perhaps even open the door for UFC to one day bring an event to Serbia.