Vitor Petrino looked like a potential future wrecking machine in the light heavyweight division when he mowed through Rodolfo Bellato on Dana White’s Contender Series to earn his place on the UFC roster and into his first four bouts inside the Octagon.

In a touch under a year, the Brazilian prospect went from making his debut against Anton Turkalj to having wins over “The Pleasure Man,” Marcin Prachnio, Modestas Bukauskas, and Tyson Pedro. He was 11-0 overall, had inched into the rankings, and entered his UFC 301 matchup with former title challenger Anthony “Lionheart” Smith as the betting favorite.

Fast forward 14 months and Petrino is looking to start anew, having transitioned to heavyweight, where this weekend in Nashville, he’ll step in opposite Austen Lane in hopes of snapping a two-fight skid.

“What motivated me to move up to heavyweight was the difficulty in making 93kg,” Petrino said when asked about his relocation to the heavyweight ranks. “It was getting harder and harder and, on top of that, it started to really affect my performances due to injuries related to it.”

Given the way Petrino likes to prepare, the decision to move up was the only realistic option, and has created a different kind of animal heading into his divisional debut against Lane on Saturday night.

“My preparation for this camp compared to the previous ones in the light heavyweight category was much more intense,” began the Cristiano Marcello protege, who will immediately be one of the youngest competitors in the heavyweight ranks when he steps into the Octagon this weekend. “I was able to eat better, get better quality sleep and thus give my all in each training session, beating my personal records.

“Injuries will always happen, but when you eat well, sleep well and rest without worrying about your weight, it was a huge difference,” Petrino added. “I have never felt so good in a camp, focusing completely on the fight.”

In addition to his joining fellow Nashville combatants and countrymen Tallison Teixeira and Valter Walker as part of the youth movement in the UFC heavyweight division, the start of this next chapter makes Petrino an interesting case study to follow over the next handful of years.

Chase Hooper has been an massive example of this over the last couple years since he ventured up to lightweight, and now that he’s two years in and shifting weight classes, it feels possible that Petrino will follow suit.

“With each appearance I feel more comfortable, more at home,” continued Petrino, reflecting on his start while looking ahead to the future. “Don't get me wrong: it's a big responsibility to be in the biggest Octagon in the world, but I feel like that's my place and I was born to be there.”

And Petrino believes he’s unlocking that version.

“This helps a lot in terms of preparation,” he said of feeling more comfortable and understanding the responsibility and pressure that comes with fighting at the highest level. “ (Once you learn this), you understand that your biggest opponent is yourself, the fight is always internal.

This weekend, that means Lane, the former NFL defensive lineman who is a physical specimen and tremendous athlete, though he’s struggled since reaching the UFC roster.

“Lane is a great athlete, he puts up very tough fights, but he has his flaws,” Petrino said of the man he’ll face this weekend, who has gone 1-3 with one no contest through his first five trips into the Octagon. “I will work on them, but, above all, I will play my game.

Confident in his preparations and eventual triumph, Petrino offered one more reason to view this weekend’s fresh start as a cause for optimism about his future and to possibly look at him as Subject X in a case study about the growth and development of athletes at this level.

“My focus is on Lane and making a great debut in this new category,” he said when asked how quickly he sees himself rising up the heavyweight ranks.

Petrino has clearly learned, and it’s going to be exciting to see how this next chapter unfolds.