
Heading into his headlining bout opposite two-time former champ Israel Adesanya in Riyadh, the question facing Imavov was whether or not the Russian middleweight was ready to take the next step forward in the division and establish himself as a legitimate title threat in the 185-pound weight class.

The answer was a resounding, emphatic “YES!” as the 29-year-old pushed his winning streak to four with a second-round stoppage win over “The Last Stylebender,” elevating himself to the No. 1 contender position in the division with the victory.

Posting wins over Roman Dolidze, Jared Cannonier, and Brendan Allen in 2024 made it clear that Imavov was a Top 10 fighter in the division, even Top 5, but history is littered with very good fighters that never managed to graduate to being full-blown contenders, and this was Imavov’s first real chance to establish himself as such. While his short-notice loss to Sean Strickland at the start of 2023 has aged well given the journey Strickland has been on since, there is something about seeing a promising talent get their hand raised against an established standout like Adesanya.

The manner with which Imavov dispatched the former champion elevates the performance as well, as this wasn’t a hard-fought, grimy decision, but rather a resounding stoppage just 30 seconds into the second round.

Middleweight was front and center throughout the month, and no one used that more to their advantage than Imavov, who heads into March as the top-ranked contender in the division.

Honorable Mentions: Vinicius Oliveira, Quillan Salkilld, Gabriel Santos, Tallison Teixeira, Jose Delgado, Austin Vanderford, Mansur Abdul-Malik, Jean Silva

Professional wrestlers have finishing moves, not MMA fighters, though it seems someone neglected to pass that information on to Valter Walker.

For the second straight fight, the Brazilian heavyweight earned a first-round finish by heel hook, following up his verbal submission win over Justin Tafa last year in his sophomore appearance in the Octagon with a similar result earlier this month against Don’Tale Mayes. Unlike the first time “The Clean Monster” broke out what is quickly becoming his signature hold, this time Walker’s decision to attack the dangerous submission was clear and decisive — a direct choice, rather than his taking a flyer in the waning moments of the round like he did at UFC 305 in Perth.

Walker wasted little time closing the distance, collecting Mayes, and depositing him to the canvas, and after as soon as it was clear that “Lord Kong” wasn’t going to quickly clamber to his feet, Walker shifted his focus to securing the finish. He needed to adjust his positioning and purchase on the heel, but once he did, Mayes was quick to tap.

Connecting on a rare submission once is novel and exciting, but when you’re able to purposefully attack and complete the hold twice, it becomes your calling card and a thing that everyone in the division should be wary of going forward, like when Aleksei Oleinik was securing Ezekiel chokes and submissions from scarf hold position back in the day. Walker has now officially entered that territory, and it will be interesting to see if he’s able to continue this run next time out.

The energetic younger half of The Fighting Walker Brothers has established himself as must-see TV every time out, just like his older brother Johnny, and if he does happen to snatch up another heel hook next time out, we’re officially going to have to come up with a cool name for the surging heavyweight’s finishing maneuver.

Honorable Mentions: Santos vs Jack Jenkins, Gabriel Bonfim vs Khaos Williams, Melquizael Costa vs Andre Fili, Ion Cutelaba vs Ibo Aslan

Climate Pledge Arena became deafening as soon as Ricky Simón’s right hand sent Javid Basharat twisting to the canvas, and the partisan crowd remained in full throat as the Pacific Northwest staple celebrated his return to the win column.

Entering on a three-fight winning streak and competing in his home state for the first time in nearly eight years, Simon struggled to get Basharat to the canvas in their early grappling exchanges. But just over three minutes into the round, with the two in space, Simon pawed with a jab and followed with a right down the pipe, finding Basharat’s jaw and sending him crashing to the canvas in a heap.

The follow-up blows were academic; the fight was done and Basharat was out.

This was a much-needed return to the win column for Simon, a long-time fixture in the bantamweight rankings who fell out of the Top 15 as a result of losses to Song Yadong, Mario Bautista, and Vinicius Oliveira. But you couldn’t have asked for a more emphatic finish and a performance that serves as a clear reminder that Simon remains an experienced and dangerous veteran posted up on the doorstep of the rankings, looking for a way back in and ready to turn back any hopefuls looking to make their way into the mix at his expense.

Honorable Mentions: Terrance McKinney vs Damir Hadzovic, Shamil Gaziev vs Thomas Petersen, Quillan Salkilld vs Anshul Jubli, Imavov vs Israel Adesanya, Jose Delgado vs Connor Matthews, Modestas Bukauskas vs Rafael Cerquiera,

Two fights after Quillan Salkilld kicked off the night in Sydney in explosive fashion, Rongzhu and Steele teamed up to set the bar for Fight of the Night honors at UFC 312 impossibly high.

Honorable Mentions: Fares Ziam vs Mike Davis, Vinicius Oliveira vs Said Nurmagomedov, Alonzo Menifield vs Julius Walker, Rob Font vs Jean Matsumoto, Anthony Hernandez vs Brendan Allen