
In advance of Saturday’s UFC 316 bantamweight championship rematch between titleholder Merab Dvalishvili and ex-champ “Suga” Sean O’Malley, Kyte called up on Tyson Chartier, head coach of the New England Cartel, to offer up his insights into how this weekend’s main event sequel could shake out.

Kyte: We’re running it back on Saturday — Dvalishvili vs. O’Malley 2 for the bantamweight title. What’s the best trait of the champ and what’s the best trait of the challenger?

Chartier: At this point, I feel like for Merab I have to say it’s his confidence. It was always his cardio — in terms of a physical trait, it’s his cardio, his conditioning — but now I think he’s on one of the best bantamweight runs of all time.

You’ve got Umar (Nurmagomedov), O’Malley, (Henry) Cejudo, (Petr) Yan, (Jose) Aldo, and (Marlon) Moraes; that’s a frickin’ pretty good winning streak. You’ve got WSOF champion, champion in the UFC, champion in the UFC, champion in the UFC, champion in the UFC, and then the guy everybody said was going to be a champion in the UFC; the boogeyman of the division. So I think it’s his confidence.

With Merab, you see the confidence in that fight with Umar — it’s the full embodiment of “he just knows” and he’s just on a heater because as we talked about going into that one, he was okay giving up the first two rounds as long as it’s competitive and he knows he’s tiring him out. As the fight went on, you saw the confidence going up and up and up to where we get the big flex and bicep smooches.

Chartier: When you’re going in there confident, knowing you can win, you fight so much looser, which plays into his other strength, the cardio.

When you’re out there and you’re not stressed out, you’re confident in what you’re doing, you’re not muscling through things as much, and you’re flowing. In his mind, I don’t think that he thinks he can lose, and that creates a looser fighter, with even better cardio, and it’s a more dangerous fighter to compete against because they’re never red-lining on anything; they’re in your face and not backing down because they don’t think they can lose.

Chartier: I think I said this last time we were talking about these two, and it’s still true: you can’t let Merab lead the dance.

You can’t react to what he’s doing because you’ll be on defense the entire fight. You’re waiting for the perfect time and it’s not gonna come; he’s not gonna give you the perfect window. What happened with Aljo is a possibility in terms of what can happen with guys that fight the way they fight, but more often than naught, you’re not gonna get that perfect shot; it’s not gonna come and you’re not gonna find it.

Easier said than done — it’s not easy to get a guy like Merab on the back foot. But at the beginning of the first fight, O’Malley was moving a lot, so keep the cage, stay long, and work the body. O’Malley hurt him at the end of the first fight, and I bet that will be part of the plan  in this one, so set up those kicks to the body, work the lead jab to the body.

When you work those lead hands to the body, Merab likes to come in with the overhand to a knee-pick or overhand to a double leg, so you’re cutting off that avenue because he has to lower his level. If you’re going to the body, he’s more likely to walk into it. He’s shown he’s susceptible to the body in the past, and I think that can be a way for O’Malley to build some confidence, especially early.

Kyte: So he threw 3.6 significant strikes per minute in their last fight; his average is 6.7. You look at his last two fights, and in the fight against “Chito” Vera, who you can go forward against, he landed 270 significant strikes and dominated the fight; he landed 47 against Merab.

Chartier: For Merab, it’s do the same thing he did last time — do Merab things — but for O’Malley, I think you have to get on offense and not worry so much about defense.

Keep it on the feet, but go first, and go first with the proper weapons: jabs to the body, teeps to the body, and use your footwork. He has great footwork, he has good eyes, and you’ve got the big cage, so use your footwork, and when you’re not evading, you have to be going with strikes.

Even if he does shoot a takedown, if you can land two or three jabs before he enters, it’s gonna add up, but if you’re sitting there waiting, that’s a path to victory for Merab.

Kyte: I’ll be really interested to see now that he’s spent 25 minutes in there with him and knows that Merab isn’t looking to grind you out on the ground, isn’t even really looking to find a submission or maul you with ground-and-pound, how that changes O’Malley’s approach to defending and working back to his feetDoes it allow him to be a little more aggressive in terms of his own offense and in terms of working back to his feet, risking positions in order to get up and get clear of him? He’s gonna get taken down, but is he a little more active in trying to get up, create space because last time he seemed very resigned at times to being stuck in those wrestling exchanges.

Chartier: He didn’t look worse against Merab than anyone else did!

The reality is he could lose to Merab, who then loses to the next guy, and O’Malley is right back in the title mix with a win or two, because he is popular and he is good, but does he put himself in a position to do that or does he take a bunch of time off?

Kyte: I wonder how much even that possibility of going down 0-2 to Merab and being stuck in The Franklin Zone impacts him, because people are going to be asking him about it all week.

I want to see what his mindset is, I want to see what his demeanor is like because this is a real big crossroads moment, and I think how he deals with all that will be somewhat instructive. He’s gonna have to answer some tough questions about it this week because if he loses to Merab for a second time in eight, nine months, he’s probably not fighting for the title again as long as he’s on the throne.

He gets stuck in that Rich Franklin with Anderson Silva, Joseph Benavidez with Demetrious Johnson spot where that third shot just isn’t coming, so I want to see if he’s all the usual stuff or dialed in and not playing any of the trash talk games because he’s bent on proving a point?

Chartier: I’m anxious to see how he reacts if it doesn’t go his way. If he wins, we know he’s gonna be right back in there, calling out the next guy — probably (Cory) Sandhagen — but if he loses, what does he do? How does he approach it?