With Brandon Royval ruled out of his UFC Vegas 103 main event bout with Manel Kape, Asu Almabayev was handed the opportunity of his career, and the in-form flyweight plans on making the most of it.

Thirty-one-year-old Almabayev has done everything right so far in his UFC career, and the 21-2 contender has won each of his four Octagon appearances to date.

And, after prepping to face Brazil's Allan Nascimento this weekend, Almayabev heard about Royval's withdrawal from the event and immediately threw his hat in the ring to replace him against Kape.

"I actually was preparing for (Steve) Erceg first, then he fell off. They gave me a Brazilian fighter (Nascimento) and I started preparing for him. And then, when Royval fell off, it was actually me who reached out to my management team and said, 'You know what? Give me this opportunity.'"

Almabayev knows he's facing the toughest test of his career but, as you'd expect from a fighter heading into a bout on a 17-fight win streak, he's confident that he has what it takes to get the job done and gatecrash the flyweight title picture.

"He's a great opponent," he admitted.

"He's very experienced. He's got good cardio, he's got good striking. He's not better (at) wrestling. But I think that whoever is going to come in there and implement their game plan, who is going to be more mentally prepared, that's the person that's going to win.

"He's had his wins. He's had his ups and downs, losses. I've only been winning so far. I've been very good at that. It just depends on who's going to come out there and be number one, and who's going to say that 'I'm ready for this title.' And I think it's me.

The opportunity to earn a shot at a UFC title would mean the world to Almabayev, as he and compatriot and welterweight contender Shavkat Rakhmonov, look to bring a championship belt back to Kazakhstan.

"It's every fighter's dream to be from around the world and represent their country here in the UFC – the biggest, toughest promotion in the world," he said.

But the pride in representing his country also brings immense pressure, too, as he explained.

Thanks to his short-notice promotion to the main event spot this weekend, Almabayev has the chance to reach his destination faster than expected. But, while he might not be a household name just yet, he hopes to prove to the world that he's a worthy challenger for the 125-pound title.

"This is a five-by-five – five rounds, five minutes – and I'm ready to show myself," he said.