Jordan Vucenic has made the walk inside The Indigo at The O2 Arena several times, watching, listening, soaking in the experience as “All Goes Wrong” by Chase & Status boomed through the venue, the crowd vibing along with him before he stepped into the cage and went to war.

This weekend, the former Cage Warriors standout is set to bring that experience to The O2 proper — the big arena — when he takes on Chris Duncan in his sophomore appearance under the UFC banner, and he’s champing at the bit to experience those electric moments on a much larger scale.

“It’s gonna be amazing,” said Vucenic, unable to contain the smile spreading across his face as he pictured the scene on Saturday night in his head. “You’ve seen what it’s like at The Indigo when my music plays, and it’s just gonna be 20 times the capacity.

While he presently understands that this is where he is meant to be, there were moments not that long ago when he looked around and wondered what he needed to do in order to reach this stage.

Vucenic spent that year logging a pair of stoppage wins, and then began last year with two more victories, and, for a brief second, the Corby man questioned if there was something he’d done to result in his not getting a call from the UFC.

“I was literally thinking, ‘What have I done wrong?’” he admitted with a laugh when asked about watching his two rivals move on to greener pastures. “I have always hyped up the UFC, I have always said I would never go with the Bellators, the PFLs, and was thinking, ‘What have I done?’

The call eventually came last summer, just a couple weeks after Vucenic logged a first-round submission win over Adrian Kepa in his first lightweight appearance in years: a short-notice opportunity to compete in Abu Dhabi opposite Guram Kutateladze, at lightweight, in the UFC.

Eight days after the phone rang, Vucenic was inside the Octagon, going toe-to-toe with “The Georgian Viking,” winning the opening round on all three scorecards before the veteran slowly took control of the contest and worked his way to a unanimous decision win.

Though not the result he wanted, it was a performance that immediately showed everyone that “The Epidemic” belongs on this level, can compete on this level. Most importantly, it showed that to Vucenic himself.

“I think I put these guys on a pedestal. I’ve watched Guram, everyone knows how class his striking is, and I thought, ‘This guy’s playing possum! It shouldn’t be easy to hit this guy.’

Listening to Vucenic speak about his career, the sticktoitiveness he’s displayed, and the vision he has for the future, you get the sense that this is someone with their head on properly; that he understands and appreciates the ebbs and flow of a life spent earning a living with your fists, and is completely honest with himself about the potential that things could go sideways any and every time he crosses the threshold into the Octagon.

“I expect this to be no different with Chris,” continued Vucenic. “I understand he’s a real tough veteran, he’s 3-1 in the UFC, he’s got knockout power, but I just think I’m on a different wave.

After settling for a birthday cake Grenade bar back on the second of March, a victory on Saturday evening is going to be the sweetest belated present Vucenic could possibly give himself, and if that does in fact come to pass, look to the center of the Octagon.