Angela Hill began her mixed martial arts career at age 29, and debuted in the UFC with a single, solitary bout under her belt. Over the last 11-plus years, she’s racked up 30 fights, with all but one year and four of those contests taking place inside the Octagon.

As she readied to kick off her 2025 campaign against Ketlen Souza this weekend at the UFC APEX, the Ultimate Fighter alum and strawweight division mainstay discussed the warring impressions she has about her career, and what the future may hold.

“I take a lot of pride in it, and it’s easy to forget, just because I’m not where I want to be yet and I haven’t accomplished what I want to accomplish yet,” Hill said when asked about the totality of her career and her longevity in the UFC. “Going into the UFC with one fight, I thought I was gonna be champion, so it was a rude awakening, and now every loss takes me down a notch, makes me wonder if it’s ever gonna happen.

Few fighters have a resume that merits greater contextualizing than Hill, who carries a 12-14 UFC record into her bout with Souza this weekend.

It’s clearly something Hill is passionate about and will unquestionably be a part of her post-fighting career, but right now, it remains her side gig, and she’s pretty clear on when she’ll know it’s time to make broadcasting her primary focus.

“When I can’t beat up the kids anymore!” Hill said, chasing her words with a chuckle when asked about figuring out when it’s time to hang up the gloves. “When I can’t spank the kids, that’s when it’s time to hang it up.

“I’ve had moments where I’ll spar someone who is this young person coming into the UFC and I’m like, ‘Ugh — I don’t know if I can hang,’ and then the second round comes, and I’m like, ‘Oh, I’m good!’

“It’s not a matter of being too old or having to hang it up because I’m chinny or can’t compete,” she added. “I think the performances will tell me whether it’s time to hang it up or not. I think the excitement of getting up in the morning to go to training will tell me, too.”

This weekend, the Top 15 mainstay is in a familiar position, paired off with another one of those “kids” she’s routinely beaten over the years, as she steps in with the 29-year-old Souza.

“We don’t really know much because she just got into the UFC,” Hill said of Souza, who is making her fourth appearance in the Octagon this weekend. “Her first fight was against someone that was bigger than her, so we don’t know much.

Jauregui was having success, using her movement and snappy jab to pick at Souza before a second low blow in the opening round brought the contest to a momentary pause. When they re-started, Souza clobbered her Mexican counterpart with a left hook that sent her tumbling to the canvas, and before Jauregui could gather her wits, Souza was deep on the rear-naked choke that ended the fight.