Earlier this year, bantamweight Malcolm Wellmaker was still splitting his time between the gym and long days on a construction site.

“Right before April, I was broke,” Wellmaker said. “I was working 10 hour shifts, driving myself to the gym at night; I was worn out. I was seven years into this grind, and it hadn’t paid off yet.”

That changed when he made his UFC debut in Kansas City this past April, earning serious recognition after scoring a first-round knockout over fellow prospect Cameron Saaiman. Coming out of that matchup completely unscathed, Wellmaker returned to the Octagon in his native Georgia less than two months later to face Kris Moutinho in Atlanta. While it was hard to top his debut showing, Wellmaker did just that, delivering another clean, first-round KO that brought his hometown supporters to their feet.

“Getting in the UFC and having success was something I had visions of, but the way that it’s manifested itself was wilder than I ever thought it would be,” Wellmaker said. “I always knew I could knock people out. In my heart, I knew I could fight with the best in the world but to get on the biggest stage and to knock out guys with names and to be doing so in the first round virtually untouched is incredible, man. It’s a dream come true.”

A crucial part of Wellmaker’s continued success is the team that’s been with him from the very beginning. Despite the new attention and accolades, he’s never strayed from his roots.

“I still train at the gym I started at,” Wellmaker said. “ I got partners that have been training partners of mine from day one… I still got teammates that can give me a hard time. I got teammates that if they start on my back, I’m probably not getting them off. I got teammates that if we box, I’m on the backfoot. I got teammates that keep me humble… I got a team of guys around me that I respect so much that’s going to be honest with me and tell me things I don’t want to hear.”

“When I got into MMA, it demanded that I changed a lot about the way I was living my life,” Wellmaker said. “It changed a lot about the way I was spending my time, and it put a lot of space between my friends and family too. It was hard because everything that I had done up until that point was counterproductive to being a good fighter, to being a good athlete and to being a good role model in the position I am now.

After two finishes in as many months, Wellmaker began receiving praise from Masvidal and other MMA veterans. That encouragement solidified his belief that he could make fighting his full-time career.

“When I fought for Jorge Masvidal on IKON FC, that was my first time meeting names like Pearl Gonzalez and obviously Jorge. These people who I knew of before getting to that level were seeing what I  was doing and they was telling me, ‘You can do it. You’re going to be a star. Just keep going.’

Once he made that commitment, he hasn’t looked back since. Wellmaker is now 10-0 with eight stoppage victories (six knockouts, two submissions) and six first-round finishes, all in under three years’ time.

Wellmaker returns for his third Octagon appearance at one of UFC’s biggest events of the year, VeChain UFC 322: Della Maddalena vs Makhachev on November 15. Wellmaker squares off against Cody Haddon, who’s stepping in on a month’s notice replacing Serhiy Sidey. The Australian prospect is unbeaten in the UFC and will be an entertaining dance partner for Wellmaker who’s keen on leaving Madison Square Garden with his third-straight bonus.