
For all 12 years of Ryan Spann’s professional MMA career, everyone else has been able to see the tremendous talent and limitless potential the towering Texan carries with him each and every time he steps into the cage. Standing six-foot-five with power in both hands, a slick submission game, and athleticism for days, the Beaumont native embodies his “Superman” nickname in terms of the upside he exudes, but for much of his career, he’s struggled to find consistency.

“A large part of my life — I’m gonna open up a little bit,” begins Spann, a historically media-averse individual who has begun to embrace being in front of the microphone or camera a little more prior to his last couple appearances, accepting that it’s part of the gig, even if he does like to paraphrase Marshawn Lynch, and joke that he’s just doing a lot of this stuff so he doesn’t get fined.

“A large part of my life, I felt that I didn’t deserve to be me,” adds the Dana White’s Contender Series graduate, who makes his heavyweight debut this weekend opposite fellow DWCS alum Waldo Cortes Acosta. “I’ve had a hard life, went through some things, persevered a lot past fighting, and that’s why I respect Jon (Jones) so much, because Jon goes through things that everybody is aware of, but he can still focus and balance and do what he’s gotta do in there.

Getting to that point where consistency is a constant has been a longstanding goal for Spann and his coaches, with Fortis MMA headman Sayif Saud frequently expressing that the preternaturally gifted competitor could be an absolute force if he were to get to a point where he believed in himself as much as those around him always have.

Last October, after making quick work of divisional mainstay Ovince Saint Preux at UFC 305 in Salt Lake City, Spann spoke about his previous struggles with staying consistent, acknowledging that he hadn’t always given the effort desired by his coaches and required to thrive at this level. He pledged to show fans a different, more consistent side of himself, pointing to his children as key drivers in his shift in mindset and approach.

“I’ve got some good coaches around me — Coach Scaccia, Eric Pena, Charles Byrd; Sayif Saud, “The General” of Fortis MMA — and they all kind of make sure I stay moving in the right direction. We all see the same thing in me.”

Spann catches himself and laughs.

Everyone has, but now that he’s finally caught up, “Superman” is ready to show just how talented and dangerous he can be inside the Octagon, starting Saturday when he ventures up to heavyweight to face off with Cortes Acosta.

In his pre-UFC days, Spann split time between middleweight and light heavyweight, with the idea of him trying to get down to 185 pounds now seemingly like a situation where the juice isn’t worth the squeeze. Since reaching the UFC, he’s fought almost exclusively at light heavyweight, where he’s missed weight once, and competed in a catchweight bout against Nikita Krylov another time when the duo’s main event pairing was postponed on fight day when the Top 15 stalwart fell ill.

While most outside the sport envision moving up in weight as something easy and a shift fighters should be able to make without issue, especially when venturing up to the heavyweight ranks, where all you need to do is come in under 266 pounds on Friday, Spann admits this camp has felt decidedly different because it’s so atypical from what he’s used to experiencing in the run-up to fight night.

The pairing with Cortes Acosta is a perfect one to test the truthfulness of Spann’s commitment to consistency, as the Dominican heavyweight enters on a three-fight winning streak, having lost only once in his career, and stationed at No. 12 in the rankings.

“I like the number,” he says, his icy smile growing wider when asked about his assignment this weekend. “I like the number. I respect everybody, but I like the number.”

Though he likes the idea of facing a ranked competitor right out of the gates and recognizes the potential that a win over Cortes Acosta brings, Spann isn’t one to allow himself to think about outcomes and what comes next with a victory.

Instead, he tries to stay focused on the here and now, and eager to see how the Lord decides to deploy his consistent, committed soldier on Saturday night in Las Vegas.

“What I can say is that I’m excited — I’m excited to see how the Lord uses me because this is a great challenge for myself, personally,” he adds, his smile ever-present. “I’m excited to see how God uses me.”