Ketlen Vieira has been in the UFC since 2016, and it feels like she's been there or thereabouts in the race for the women's bantamweight title throughout that time. But now, as she prepares to make the walk to the Octagon for the 14th time, she thinks the time has finally come to make a run at the title.

Vieira takes on Norma Dumont at UFC Fight Night: Garcia vs Onama at the UFC APEX on Saturday in a matchup that could offer the same high stakes for both women, with the two Brazilian contenders both eyeing a shot at championship gold in 2026.

"I know it's not formalized yet, but I think that because of our position on the rankings, of the fact that those above us have had a shot at a title, I do believe that the winner of this fight will be having a shot at the title," she said.

Standing on the cusp of a title shot isn't a new feeling for Vieira, who has been close to a title fight before. But now she says she's ready to go that extra yard to get the victory and secure a shot at the belt.

"Even though I've actually been in this position, I've been in this situation before, I'm very motivated," she said.

The fight pits two veterans of the Octagon head-to-head in an all-Brazilian battle that could easily have happened earlier in their careers. But the two compatriots will finally face off this weekend, and Vieira said she's excited for the matchup.

"I think that we knew that at one point, sooner or later, things are going to narrow down, and there's kind of a funnel to go through to get to the championship," she admitted.

Now, Vieira and Dumont head into their matchup ranked third and fourth, respectively.

Since the world emerged from the COVID-19 pandemic, Vieira has gone 4-2 in the Octagon, with her two losses coming against championship-level opposition in Raquel Pennington and Kayla Harrison. Notably, neither was able to finish her as she battled both women to the scorecards in non-title fights.

"I think that fight was really important, because I think it was the fight to make," she explained.

Ultimately, Vieira wants to get herself into a position to challenge for the women's bantamweight title, and that could potentially mean a rematch with the last woman to defeat her.

But Vieira knows that, before any possibility of a rematch with Harrison can become reality, she will have to continue adding wins to her record, including on Saturday night against Dumont.

And, as she mentally prepares herself for the battle ahead, Vieira said she uses visualization to map out all the different scenarios that could take her to victory.

"I think when it comes to visualizing and just picturing what happens in a fight, I will always do that, but I always try to be to keep that thought positive, and I always think of positive things happening," she said

And when asked to give us an early prediction of how the action might play out on fight night, Vieira said fans can expect an exciting encounter between two fighters who will leave it all in the Octagon in their quest for a title shot.

"I've always said that when that (Octagon) door closes, it's 50-50, and it can go either way," she said.

"I think it could be a short fight (or) it could be a long battle. But I'll tell you what, she's going to be fighting for her dream, I'm going to be fighting for mine, and what I do know is that it's going to be a great fight."