Undefeated Japanese bantamweight Rinya Nakamura (9-0-0) competes at his first numbered UFC event on Saturday when he battles the vastly more experienced Tajikistan fighter Muin Gafurov (19-6-0) at UFC 311 in Inglewood, California.

Many Japanese fighters have competed in both PRIDE and UFC, such as UFC Hall of Famer Kazushi Sakuraba and Yushin Okami and Nakamura was never short of inspirational fighters to idolize.

The most vivid memory of Nakamura’s childhood was a life-changing time when his family invited then-UFC star Carlos Newton to live with them.

“Carlos used to live at our house when I was little,” Nakamura recalls gleefully.

“He often trained and fought in Japan and the belt he took from Pat Miletich (UFC welterweight championship), he gave to us a gift and it was in our home.

“Carlos used to take me out to places, was very kind to me, and we still speak regularly.”

While Nakamura has adopted some of Newton’s poses and mannerisms, including the famous Dragon Ball scream, he has developed his own fighting style, one which has earned him the nickname “Hybred.”

He won two fights in the tournament before sensationally stopping his compatriot Toshiomi Kazama by knockout in just 33 seconds to the win the series and a place in the UFC in 2023.

Japan’s blossoming UFC newcomer followed up with a unanimous decision victory over Fernie Garcia in August 2023 and bested Carlos Vera via the same manner in February 2024.

“I'm so happy to be fighting on such a big event. There are two UFC title fights on the card but I'm not thinking about it too much because I want to stay focused on my opponent. Although, it has gone through my mind that a win over Gafurov, who also trains with the champion Merab Dvalishvili, could catapult me into bigger fights.”

Tajik fighter Gafurov, 28, who boasts a strong combat sambo background, is coming off a decision win – his first triumph in the Octagon – over South Korea’s Kyung Ho Kang from June 2024.

Nakamura has studied Gafurov’s style and is wary of his finishing ability.

“As you can see in his finishing percentage, he always aims to finish and hits with big punches and kicks, using good combinations, as well. He is also good at guillotine submissions.”

“The Japanese style of wrestling is strong, and my wrestling is powerful, so I think it will be a level of wrestling that he has never experienced before. I'm going to show everyone all the things I’ve been working on in my camp.”