Ten days ago, Kyle Prepolec got a call to compete in Montreal this week, and the veteran from Windsor, Ontario was rightfully pumped for the opportunity.

Three-and-a-half years after he last competed in the epicenter of Canadian MMA, the 35-year-old was headed back, called on short notice to square off with Michael Dufort in a rematch of their standout battle in the main event of Samourai MMA 1 this Friday night. Less than a week later, he was out of the bout with Dufort, and headed back to the UFC, replacing Joel Alvarez opposite Benoit Saint Denis in Saturday’s UFC 315 pay-per-view main card opener.

The last couple of weeks have been the positive side of being a battle-tested veteran that is always ready, as Prepolec was first able to jump at the opportunity to run things back with Dufort and then quickly pivot and agree to make the walk to the Octagon this weekend.

But as any fighter that competes on the regional circuit can tell you, weeks like Prepolec has had as of late are far less common than what his last few years have been like.

The Premier Mixed Martial Arts representative had a two-fight cup of coffee in the UFC in 2019, debuting on short notice, up a division in Ottawa against Nordine Taleb before returning to lightweight to face Austin Hubbard in Vancouver. He dropped both bouts and was released from the promotion in March 2020.

Injuries and the COVID pandemic kept him out of action until his win over Dufort in November 2021, which was followed by a loss to fellow UFC veteran Shane Campbell five months later under the Unified MMA banner. Since then, he’s fought three times, winning all three bouts by first-round stoppage, while also having four bouts fall through for various reasons.

For Prepolec, the fact that he’s been through this exact scenario before in his promotional debut against Taleb is undeniably helpful, and the short-notice nature of things has definitely made rolling into Montreal and going through the standard pre-fight paces a little less stressful than it may be for newcomers making their debuts or those experiencing a short-notice call-up for the first time.