
There are only two fighters in the lightweight Top 15 that are currently on a longer winning or unbeaten streak than Klein — champion Islam Makhachev, who has won 15 straight, and Paddy Pimblett, who is 7-0 in the UFC and has won nine straight overall.

Klein touches down in Las Vegas, where he takes on Top 10 mainstay Mateusz Gamrot, on a four-fight winning streak and unbeaten in his last seven. The 30-year-old Slovakian has been a victim of bad circumstances and has unfortunately fallen into the shadows as others around him have garnered marquee wins in big spots to move forward in the division, while he’s remained stuck on the outside of the rankings, desperate for a chance to face someone with a number next to his name.

He was scheduled to face veteran fan favorite Jim Miller two summers back, but was forced out with an illness, and a bout against Spanish finisher Joel Álvarez failed to materialize last year. At the same time, lightweights like Ignacio Bahamondes and Thiago Moises, both of whom Klein has beaten during his current winning streak, found their way into quality pairings and prime spots on fight night, with Bahamondes briefly earning a place in the rankings following his win over Jalin Turner at UFC 313.

he faces off with Gamrot, a battle-tested divisional stalwart coming off a gutsy split decision loss to Dan Hooker last August in Perth. The Polish veteran is 7-3 inside the Octagon and an impressive 24-3 with one no contest overall, including a win over fellow top contender Arman Tsarukyan.

Jumping from facing Roosevelt Roberts on short notice last September in Paris to sharing the Octagon with “Gamer” on Saturday is a major step up in competition for Klein, but also a chance for the streaking lightweight to catapult himself into the thick of the chase in the talent-rich 155-pound ranks if he can maintain his winning ways.

Filho is one of several unranked flyweights that truly help illustrate what a good position the division is in now.

The 32-year-old Brazilian, who earned his place on the roster with a third-round finish of TUF 32 cast member Roybert Echeverria on Season 6 of Dana White’s Contender Series, debuted at UFC 286 in London, suffering a third-round submission loss to Muhammad Mokaev. Anyone that simply looks at the result will likely pass it off as an unsurprising outcome against the undefeated prospect, but those that recall the fight remember that Filho was neck-and-neck with Mokaev through the first two rounds and had the former Top 10 talent in a gnarly kneebar early in the final frame before Mokaev escaped and eventually found a submission of his own.

Since then, “Pastor” has put together consecutive first-round stoppage wins over Daniel Barez and Ode’ Osbourne, two other members of the flyweight “Second 15” that are each coming off wins of their own.

Saturday evening, Filho faces off with fellow Brazilian Allan Nascimento in what could be an outstanding grappling match contested under MMA rules, and will be instructive no matter how things play out. Nascimento is a skilled veteran coming off consecutive victories of his own, and someone that likely would be making a real push for a place in the Top 15 himself if injuries, illnesses, and opponent switches hadn’t limited him to just three UFC appearances to date.

Flyweight is flush with talent and the competition to land a number next to your name is fierce, making a matchup like this critical for Filho if he hopes to force his way into the rankings or even land a date with a ranked opponent later this year.