When Kelvin Gastelum first learned his epic interim title fight with Israel Adesanya from UFC 236 was going to be inducted into the Fight Wing of the UFC Hall of Fame this year during International Fight Week, the Ultimate Fighter Season 17 winner both honored and a little surprised. On one hand, being a part of an iconic fight that finds its way into the annals of history is a rare honor, and one that he did not and does not take lightly, however, as an active competitor, the 33-year-old middleweight is still exclusively focused on what’s in front of him, not what’s behind him.

“It’s truly an honor to be recognized in that manner,” Gastelum said of his induction on Wednesday morning, just a few days out from his return to action against Dustin Stoltzfus this weekend at Noche UFC in San Antonio. “It’s a culmination of a lot of work. It’s cool — it’s a great, great honor to have that happen — but, at the same time, it’s a little bittersweet because it’s a fight that I ultimately lost.”

In a certain way, that fight and the conflicted feelings Gastelum carries about it feel like an encapsulation of his career as a whole.

A diamond-in-the-rough prospect coming off his TUF win, he ran his record to 11-0 with victories in each of his first four appearances in the Octagon, only to miss weight and land on the wrong side of a split decision verdict against future champion Tyron Woodley at UFC 183. Weight management issues eventually sent him to middleweight, where after a couple quality outings, victories over recently dethroned former champ Michael Bisping and perennial contender Ronaldo “Jacare” Souza, landed him opposite Adesanya in Atlanta, with the two men reaching the fifth round deadlocked on the scorecards.

“The Last Stylebender” rose to the occasion, earning 10-8 scores across the board to claim the victory and the interim title, and Gastelum has been trying to get back to the level he showed in the middle frames of that fight ever since. As he’s done too often for his own liking since that historic battle, Gastelum enters Saturday’s bout with Stoltzfus at Frost Bank Center coming off a setback and looking to rebound, eager to showcase the improvements he’s made over the years and prove that he still has plenty to offer in the middleweight division.

“It takes practice and I’ve been through it before,” he said with an easy smile when asked about setting his June loss to Joe Pyfer and the frustrations of the past couple years behind him as he steps back into the fray this weekend. “I know exactly what I need to do to bounce back and I’ve done it before.

For the 30-fight veteran, who has logged all but six of those appearances under the UFC banner, everything comes down to his mindset, and he feels like the abbreviated nature of his training camp ahead of Saturday’s Noche UFC event in San Antonio has been beneficial to putting him in a good position heading into the weekend.

“It was a short camp, but I liked it; I actually preferred it,” said Gastelum, a hint of surprise still lingering in his voice after condensing things this time around. “There was no easing into camp — it was straight grinding, and I enjoyed that. I think these little camps are something I’m going to start doing instead of these long, prolonged eight-,10-, 12-week camps that I usually do.

“I think it’s just mindset,” he said in regard to what has kept him from performing the way he believes he still can. “I’ve hit and miss where I’ve needed to be mentally these last few fights. I don’t know why — maybe it’s just been that trying to get the ball rolling again is really, really, really difficult.

“I love coming out to compete in Texas; any time I’ve been out here, the crowds have been amazing and the people really come out and show love,” added Gastelum, who earned his third UFC victory in San Antonio. “I’ve been wanting to come out and compete out here again for while and it just so happens to be at a great event like Noche UFC. I owe the Mexican people a fight — I kind of left them hanging in Mexico City — so hopefully we can make up for that this weekend.”

Though he has larger goals and an unwavering belief that he can still do some big things within the division, the reality is that Gastelum heads into the weekend once again looking to hit the reset button and start anew.

It’s an all-too-familiar position for the 12-year UFC veteran, and the cache of memories he needs to set aside or permanently delete ahead of each bout continues to grow. But ultimately, the process of building momentum, stacking wins, and taking aim at those goals he still has starts with one quality outing, and Gastelum is confident that journey begins this weekend in San Antonio.