
Things opened with newcomer Santiago Luna registering a first-round stoppage win over Quang Le that sent the partisan crowd into hysterics, and was followed by local boy Alexander Hernandez registering his second win in four weeks, stopping Diego Ferreira. Each of the next three fights were slobberknockers, with Kelvin Gastelum, Rafa Garcia, and David Martinez all registering victories in competitive, entertaining bouts.

And in the main event, Diego Lopes and Jean Silva got into an absolute brawl, with Lopes emerging victorious with a second-round stoppage win over the streaking Dana White’s Contender Series grad.

Diego Lopes finished Jean Silva with the same spinning back elbow “Lord” had been trying to land all fight.

This was a tense, contentious battle between two absolute warriors, and Lopes showed once again why he is one of the best featherweights in the UFC. After coming up short in a battle for the vacant title earlier this year, the Brazilian Warriors leader kept himself at the top of the list of potential contenders with this performance.

Rob Font and David Martinez joined in the “stand and trade” party at Noche UFC, spending all 15 minutes of their bantamweight tussle exchanging strikes and looking to do significant damage.

This was a classic clash of boxing styles, with Font working behind his smooth jab and trying to pressure, while Martinez was constantly launching heaters, whether he was throwing punches or kicks. In all three rounds, the UFC sophomore landed at a much better clip, and towards the end of the fight, “Doctor” sat Font down, sending the crowd into a raucous ovation that made it impossible to hear the final horn.

When the scores were collected and read, it was Martinez that came out on top, earning the biggest win of his career, and giving native-born Mexican athletes a perfect 5-0 record on the evening. This was a massive win for the first-year bantamweight, who stepped in on short notice after originally being scheduled to open the main card, and instantly stamps him as person of interest in the 135-pound weight class.

Rafa Garcia and Jared Gordon got into a live-action game of Rock ’em, sock ’em Robots on Saturday in San Antonio, clobbering each other with non-stop power shots in the pocket until a right hand from Garcia opened the door to a finish.

For two-and-a-half rounds, Garcia and Gordon exchanged heavy shots in tight, taking turns landing the kind of blows that made the other stop in their tracks momentarily before getting right back to slinging leather. Just ahead of the midway point in Round 3, Garcia put a right hand on Gordon’s chin that twisted him to the canvas, allowing the 31-year-old to chase him to the ground and eventually smash out the finish.

That’s now back-to-back wins for “Gifted” and wins in six of his last eight. This was a tremendous fight and a massive finish for Garcia, who should inch forward in the divisional hierarchy a little more following this one.

Kelvin Gastelum and Dustin Stoltzfus mauled each other in the middle of the Noche UFC main card.

In the first, Stotlzfus got the better of the exchanges, utilizing his kicks well and connecting with good punches as Gastelum looked to determine his range and get a read on his opponent’s timing. The former Ultimate Fighter winner had outstanding moments in the second, staggering and busting up Stoltzfus multiple times, only for the Dana White’s Contender Series grad to endure and land some good shots of his own to close out the middle stanza. In the third, the battered middleweights traded cracking blows, with Gastelum and his granite chin wearing it better.

The judges were called upon to determine the victor and all three scored the fight in favor of Gastelum. This was a hard-fought battle and a solid performance from the recent Hall of Fame inductee, but one marred by the fact that he missed weight by a considerable margin.

Alexander Hernandez just keeps posting wins!

For the second time in four weeks, Hernandez collected a stoppage win, returning to his hometown of San Antonio and finishing Diego Ferreira after dropping him with a sharp right hand. He was looking for the laser-sighted shot the entire fight, and when he finally landed it, “El Gran Chango” made sure not to let the opportunity to finish slip through his hands.

That’s now four consecutive victories over the last 12 months, and five straight wins competing in the lightweight division. He’s got one of the longer active winning streaks in the division and should continue working forward towards the rankings after registering his third win of the year and second finish in a month.

Santiago Luna opened the Noche UFC main card with a thrilling comeback finish in the first round.

Quang Le hurt the 21-year-old newcomer in the early exchanges, looking like he might spoil the debut of the unbeaten prospect. But Luna steadied himself and worked back into the contest, hurting Le with a series of shots along the fence late in the frame, sealing the victory with a thudding hammerfist just beyond the midway point of the round.