Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Kyte: And what about the challenger?

Kyte: Right — he’s on you straight away, suffocating you, not giving you any chance to get settled or prepare for what’s coming.

Nicksick: A hundred percent.

He chains everything together so well, so quickly that it’s hard to react and respond. He likes to just blitz right away — get across the cage, get connected to you — and then he’s immediately looking to get you down, switching his entries, constantly making you defend. Once he gets you down, he’s flattening you out, looking for ground-and-pound or a choke.

We’ve seen it in almost all of his fights — guys are just stuck on the back foot, stuck defending — and Chimaev is too strong, too good for them to be able to stop him. His early pressure, and how Dricus deals with that early blitz will go a long way to showing us how this fight is going to play out.

Kyte: All right, so let’s get into that side of things then. What’s the path to victory for the champ and what’s the path to victory for the challenger?

Kyte: Later in the fourth.

Kyte: Yeah, this feels like a classic “if it ends early, it’s one result, and if it ends late, it’s the other” kind of fight.

Nicksick: A hundred percent.

Kyte: Right — shoot right away, get connected, and make him deal with everything you’re giving him, trying to get him out of there?

Nicksick: A hundred percent.

Kyte: It feels like one of those spots — and I shout this at my TV all the time watching fights, as if I know what I’m talking about — where you can’t worry about offense at all; it has to just be stuff the head, keep a strong base if he’s in trying to take you down along the fence, and when he gets you down, keep the chin tucked, deal with the hooks, and just two-on-one, baseball bat, make sure you don’t get mauled.

Nicksick: Yep, and that’s easier said than done, right, but that’s what you have to do because his pressure is too good, his chain wrestling is too good.

Kyte: It’s true. It sucks, but it’s true.

Kyte: Okay, so what’s the X-factor here? What’s the one thing that can have a big impact on how this fight plays out?

Kyte: And those two things go hand-in-hand.

Nicksick: I don’t know if one guy has a greater say, but the offensive guy always has the edge, right?

Kyte: Yeah, that makes sense.

Kyte: So then what’s your point of curiosity here? What’s something about this matchup, this fight, how it plays out that you’re thinking about, that you want to see that falls outside of the standard stuff we usually talk about?

Kyte: Yeah, Coach Cal is a mad scientist with this stuff and pushes to get everything dialed all the way in.

Kyte: Okay. I had no idea he was out there; that’s really big. Like you said, it doesn’t guarantee anything, but it’s definitely something that is good to know, that you have to think about going into this now.

Nicksick: A hundred percent.

