
Newcomer and DWCS grad Quillan Salkilld opened the show with a 17-second knockout win over Anshul Jubli before fellow Season 8 winner Jonathan Micallef out-hustled Kevin Jousset to win his debut as well. Rongzhu and Wang Cong collected unanimous decision victories on either side of Alexandre Topuira securing his first UFC triumph, while Australian DWCS alum Tom Nolan secured his third straight win in the penultimate bout of the early slate.

In the final prelim, Gabriel Santos turned in an impressive effort, dominating promising Aussie Jack Jenkins, submitting him in the third round to register his second consecutive win inside the Octagon.

The recent DWCS graduate was the quicker, more powerful of the two throughout the contest, landing with greater force whenever the two men exchanged. He dropped Jousset in the first and caused him to “glitch” on his feet a couple other times, connecting with myriad heavy kicks and sharp left hands throughout.

Entering with just eight fights under his belt, it was difficult to know what to expect from the 25-year-old newcomer, but Micallef looked poised and dangerous in turning back a more experienced opponent. With his winning streak now at three and his first UFC triumph under his belt, it’ll be interesting to see who "The Captain" lines up opposite next time out.

Steele had good moments early in the contest, landing a handful of clean shots that got Gongzhu’s attention and forced him to go. And go he did, as the Chinese prospect closed out the opening round putting it on the newcomer, dropped him with a heavy jab in the second, and dominated the exchanges the rest of the way to secure the unanimous decision win.

After going 1-2 in his first stint with the promotion, Rongzhu got things moving in the right direction again here after dropping his returning bout last year against Chris Padilla. Rongzhu has always been allergic to being in boring fights, and should remain an all-action fan favorite in the 155-pound weight class, and an intriguing name to track given his age, experience, and new relationship with the City Kickboxing crew.

Fighting a division below his brother, Topuria showed some of the same movements and attacks as his sibling, and punctuated his first UFC round by connecting on a beautiful belly-to-back suplex. Judicious with his offerings, but efficient when he threw, the 29-year-old connected at an outstanding clip while showing swift defensive movements as well.

Thicknesse was game throughout, but he just couldn’t build enough momentum to really change the tides of this one, as Topuria did well to ground him in the third and grind out the win. That’s now for straight wins for Topuria, and makes he and his brother the latest set of siblings to each earn victories inside the Octagon.

Jenkins started well, dropping Santos with a head kick in the opening stages of the first, only to find himself stuck defending a deep triangle after chasing the Brazilian to the canvas. From that point forward, it was all Santos, as the Chute Boxe Diego Lima representative controlled the second after taking it to the canvas, then hurt Jenkins early in the third, dragging him to the canvas and working to secure the choke.

Santos is a dark horse in the talent-rich featherweight division, having now earned back-to-back wins after dropping each of his first two UFC assignments. The 28-year-old is now 12-2 as a professional, and heads into the second quarter of the 2025 fight calendar with a ton of momentum.