At UFC BJJ 4, family ties and championship ambitions collided in a landmark night featuring three title bouts and the crowning of two new divisions inside The Bowl at UFC APEX.

In the main event match of the evening, Reigning UFC BJJ welterweight champion Andrew Tackett showcased his grappling excellence as he registered the second defense of his title with a first-round submission win over ADCC standout Elijah Dorsey.

Tackett made his typically fast start, but Dorsey matched him as he countered smartly and focused an attack on Tackett’s left leg to halt the champion’s early momentum.

With Tackett seemingly unable to escape, Dorsey adjusted his grip and appeared to have the champion in trouble. But, rather than tap, Tackett attacked the challenger’s leg and locked up an inside heel hook of his own that forced a quick tap as the Syndicate MMA man turned the tables in spectacular fashion to retain his title.

After his victory, Tackett revealed he had competed with a rib injury, but said he wasn’t going to let it stop him from competing and defending his title.

“I’ve worked my whole life for this,” he explained.

“I’ve been training since I was six, homeschooled, never worked a regular job. I don’t have any ability to lose, or quit. So, it’s all that I have, so I’ve gotta go full send.”

Tackett also revealed that the matchup went in a very different direction to the bout he had been preparing for.

“I didn’t think we were going to play feet battle at all,” he said.

“I thought it was going to be more of a takedown, aggressive battle. I didn’t expect leglocks at all. And I didn’t drill leglocks at all this camp, so the fact that I hit one… woo! It’s pretty cool!”

The first period was a round of two halves, with Ronaldo starting the faster of the pair, but, as the round wore on, Tackett slowed the action down and dominated position, but didn’t have the Brazilian in any big trouble.

This time, it was Ronaldo pushing the pace, and transitioned smoothly through into mount and attempted to lock up an arm-triangle, then came close to a mounted triangle, as the Brazilian dominated the second stanza.

With the fight, and the inaugural title, hanging in the balance, Ronaldo made a fast start to the final round as he quickly took down Tackett, then moved into mount. Once there, he locked up an arm triangle choke, then an anaconda choke, as he pushed hard for a submission finish.

Tackett defended gamely, but with each escape, he was met by another potential submission. Even after Tackett escaped and moved into top position, Ronaldo threatened with a triangle choke.

The Brazilian could sense victory was near, and he locked up a tight D’Arce choke in the final seconds that didn’t quite force the tap, but did underscore a hugely impressive display as the Brazilian captured the inaugural UFC BJJ middleweight title.

The judges scorecards were emphatic, as Ronaldo picked up the victory, and the inaugural 185-pound title, with scores of 30-25, 30-24, 40-24.

The inaugural UFC BJJ women’s featherweight champion was crowned as France’s Aurelie Le Vern claimed a first-round submission victory over Raquel Canuto in their 145-pound title tussle.

After a lengthy feeling-out process, the action exploded into life 90 seconds into the fight as Le Vern went for a takedown. It sparked a scramble that ended with Le Vern locking up an inverted triangle choke that had Canuto trapped.

Le Vern then successfully isolated Canuto’s left arm and locked up a Kimura and cranked the hold. Canuto tried to tough it out, with the pain etched across her face for all to see as she desperately tried to ride out the hold.

But Le Vern would not be denied, and she rotated the shoulder even further to force Canuto to finally submit as she wrote her name into the record books as the first women’s champion in UFC BJJ history.

Hot on the heels of UFC BJJ’s first men’s featherweight match, the inaugural women’s strawweight matchup saw Mayssa Bastos go head to head with Tubby Alequin to kick off the 115-pound class as the Brazilian claimed a unanimous decision victory after three tightly-contested rounds.

Both women seemed keen to get the action to the mat, but in a closely-contested opening round, it was Bastos who was more clearly pushing for openings over the course of the first five minutes.

Round 2 saw the pair grapple to a stalemate, with neither athlete able to mount  consistent offense, but the intensity level increased in the final frame as Alequin tried to force an opening, but Bastos looked one step ahead as she shut down the American’s offense at source, though she was unable to put her opponent in any serious trouble in the final moment.

It meant the bout would be decided by the three judges at bowlside, and all three scorers saw it the same, as Bastos kicked off the women’s 115-pound division with a victory.

Lightweight contender Dorian Olivarez delivered a performance full of aggression as he wore down the dangerous Samuel Nagai to earn a unanimous decision victory in their lightweight matchup.

Olivarez started aggressively as he looked to assert himself in the opening exchanges, but he had to react quickly as Nagai swiftly turned the tables and grabbed a heel hook that very nearly drew a quick tap from the American.

The pair continued to tussle back and forth, with only a brief pause for an accidental eye-poke slowing the proceedings, as Olivarez continued to work for openings from the top, while Nagai continually looked to attack the legs off his back.

After an omoplata from Nagai temporarily halted Olivarez’s top pressure, the Brazilian then attacked the legs again. But Olivarez remained diligent in defense as he rode out the remaining seconds in Round 1.

Nagai went straight back to his guard at the start of the second round as he switched his attacks from Olivarez’s legs to his arms to keep the American guessing.

Olivarez tried to stay aggressive, and eventually managed to break out of Nagai’s guard and secure a north-south choke that came very close to sealing the finish at the end of the second round.

By the start of the third round, the momentum had swung significantly in Olivarez’s favor, and the Kingsway Jiu-Jitsu product utilized his energy, aggression and wrestling to dominate the flow of the action in the final frame as he ran out the unanimous decision winner.

With that victory, Olivarez has announced himself as a major threat at lightweight, and a potential future opponent for reigning lightweight champion Carlos Henrique.

Former welterweight title challenger Andy Varela added another victory to his UFC BJJ resumé with a third-round submission win over Robby Malof.

Great work from Varela early saw him move to Malof’s back, then via a takedown, into mount as he established a dominant position inside the opening 30 seconds of the match.

Malof attempted to tie up Varela, but the 10th Planet Las Vegas man continued to boss things from the top as he weighed heavy on “The Hebrew Heartthrob”.

There was a brief flashpoint in the closing seconds of the round as, with Malof seemingly intent on keeping his back flat on the mat and seeing out the round, Varela mockingly made a yawning gesture to the crowd, prompting Malof to shove him away with a push kick to the chest. The skirmish drew a stern word from referee Jason Herzog as the round came to a close.

Between rounds, it emerged that Malof had sustained an injury to the index finger on his right hand that required inspection from the bowl-side physician. But Malof declared himself ready to go, and the matchup continued into the second round.

The talk between the pair continued as Varela flexed for the cameras from top position, while Malof dared him to stand back up and restart. After another quick flex, Varela obliged, but with his right hand unusable, Malof was unable to mount any offense.

Malof called for another chat with the doctor between rounds, while referee Jason Herzog warned him that he needed to start being more competitive to avoid points being deducted for a lack of action.

Despite the injury, Malof emerged for the final round, but he couldn’t stop Varela from dragging him to the mat. And when the Vegas man moved into position and locked up an inside heel hook, Malof had no option but to tap.

It meant that Varela completed back-to-back submission victories in UFC BJJ, as he followed up his second-round finish of Daniel Sathler at UFC BJJ 3 with a third-round finish here at UFC BJJ 4.

Elmore continued to keep the pressure on, and he quickly found the finish as he initiated a leg entanglement, then rolled himself into position to secure an Aoki lock that forced the quick tap after just 42 seconds.

After his victory, Elmore said he wanted to be the first UFC BJJ champion at featherweight, and suggested a contender matchup with former 135-pound title challenge Keven Carrasco to set him up for a title shot later next year.