
In the co-main event,  IBJJF No-Gi World Champion Ronaldo Junior captured the inaugural UFC BJJ middleweight title with a superb display of high-pressure, crowd-pleasing jiu-jitsu that saw him push the pace and chase the finish for the full 15 minutes against fellow challenger William Tackett.

After a period of little activity, referee Vitor Ribeiro stood the pair up, and Ronaldo came close to taking Tackett’s back as the action returned to the mat once again.

Positional dominance was the order of the day as welterweight title challenger Renato Canuto returned to action at the UFC APEX against 10th Planet San José submission ace Alan Sanchez.

Canuto opened up with a flying guard-pull attempt, but Sanchez stayed calm in the face of his opponent’s flamboyant start, and defended well as Canuto attempted to lock up a heel hook.

The action settled down, with Canuto working from inside Sanchez’s half-guard, and while Sanchez seemed to be relatively comfortable for much of the round, Canuto turned up the pressure with a quickfire D’Arce choke attempt, then a foot lock attempt as both men went hunting for lower leg submissions.

The second round saw more of the same from Canuto, who continued to be the aggressor as he forced Sanchez to play defense through the first half of the second round.

Sanchez tried to take Canuto’s back, then spied an opening to go for an arm, but Canuto was wise to it and smartly backed out. Canuto still had time to get back to work and move into mount, but Sanchez did enough off his back to stay out of trouble until the end of the round.

Canuto pushed the pace even further in Round 3, as he mounted Sanchez, but once again found the American a tough nut to crack, as Sanchez fended off the Brazilian’s attacks. Even a cheeky nose pinch from Canuto didn’t faze Sanchez, who stayed in the bout, though he couldn’t work an opening for himself to snatch a late finish.

In the end, Canuto’s constant aggression ensured he earned the nod from the judges, as he bounced back into the win column after his title bout disappointment earlier this year.

After his victory, Canuto admitted he was frustrated by how his matchup played out, and said he was probably one more win away from another shot at championship gold.

Bella Mir continued to showcase her immense talent on the mats as the 22-year-old daughter of former UFC heavyweight champion Frank Mir showcased her composure and patience in defense, as well as her offensive skills, in a majority decision victory over Rana Willink.

The action quickly went to the ground in Round 1, with Mir looking to work her way to the back of her opponent. Willink looked to stay out of danger, but nearly ended up trapped in a D’Arce choke as Mir switched targets in the transition.

Mir then smoothly moved into mount and looked to work a choke, but Willink stayed calm and escaped, before threatening with a guillotine choke of her own.

Mir easily worked her way free, then resumed her offense, but had to be on her guard as Willink rolled into position to attempt a kneebar. The leg wasn’t quite in the optimal position to complete the submission, however, and Mir wisely stayed patient and allowed time to run out, rather than run the risk of putting herself in more danger.

Encouraged by her kneebar attempt at the end of the first round, Willink attempted to put Mir on the back foot at the start of Round 2, but Mir leaned on her physical strength and wrestling prowess to outmuscle her opponent and establish top position.

Willink initiated a leg entanglement and came close to locking up a heel hook, but once again Mir showed her composure as she avoided a fight-finishing situation.

After a brief timeout to clean up a sudden bloody nose for Mir after an accidental clash of heads, the action resumed and Mir quickly took Willink’s back. But the dogged Willink once again defended well and threatened with a footlock as the second round came to a close.

The final round got underway with Willink immediately pulling guard and looking to go for Mir’s legs. But Mir stayed heavy on top and denied Willink the space needed to launch a concerted attack on Mir’s legs.

Willink continued to attack, and in the closing 90 seconds managed to isolate an ankle as she attacked a footlock. But Mir’s composure once again proved crucial as she defended well as time ran out.

It was a good test for Mir, who followed up her second-round finish at UFC BJJ 1 with a hard-earned decision win tonight at UFC BJJ 4.

UFC BJJ 4 saw the launch of the men’s featherweight division, and 19-year-old Landon Elmore swiftly claimed the honor of being the first grappler to register a victory in the newly-established UFC BJJ weight class as he submitted Nate Hernandez, then set his sights on becoming the inaugural UFC BJJ champion at 145 pounds.

The action hit full throttle from the opening seconds as Elmore went airborne to attempt a flying triangle, but Hernandez was alive to it, and managed to lean away from danger. A scramble then ensued on the mat as Hernandez shot in for a takedown and Elmore countered with a guillotine attempt.

The opening match of the night saw 40-year-old Jussier Formiga return to the UFC to claim a unanimous decision victory over the dangerous Lucas Pinheiro in their bantamweight matchup.

The third and final round saw Formiga continue his aggressive approach, as he used his power and physicality to shut down Pinheiro’s takedown attempts. But despite earning top position on his opponent, Formiga was unable to mount much offense as the action was stood up twice by referee Vitor “Shaolin” Ribeiro.

It means the judges were called into action to determine the victor, with all three scoring the bout for Formiga, who may now have another UFC chapter in his career – inside the UFC BJJ bowl.