
These are the Fighters on the Rise for UFC Fight Night: Adesanya vs. Imavov.

“LokDog” had an impressive rookie campaign in the UFC in 2024 and looks to begin this year with a bang by taking on divisional stalwart Said Nurmagomedov on Saturday’s main card.

A member of the DWCS Class of ’23, Oliveira kicked off his first year on the roster in explosive style, registering one of the top knockouts of the year in the third round of his March finish of Benardo Sopaj. In any other year, the devastating flying knee that put Sopaj down earns Oliveira Knockout of the Year accolades, but the first-year Brazilian fighter had to settle for the bronze medal in 2024, sharing the podium with Max Holloway and Ilia Topuria.

As impressive as his debut finish was, the fact that Oliveira returned at the end of June and collected a unanimous decision win over tenured bantamweight Ricky Simón was even more eye-opening. Simon had been a fixture in the Top 15 before losses to Song Yadong and Mario Bautista slowed his progress, but he still held a significant edge in terms of experience, and yet Oliveira was able to march into the Octagon and land one round away from earning a clean sweep of the scorecards over the Pacific Northwest native in just his second UFC appearances.

It was the kind of win that showed the native of Porto Alegre was ready for another step up in competition and a chance to potentially make a case for a Top 15 ranking of his own to begin his 2025 slate, and he gets just that this weekend by stepping in with Nurmagomedov.

The 32-year-old Russian enters off a first-round submission win over Muin Gafurov, who defeated Nakamura at UFC 311 two weeks back, and sports an 18-3 record overall. He didn’t make an appearance in the Octagon last year as he was forced to withdraw from two bouts due to undisclosed reasons and had an opponent suffer the same fate in between, but he’s been ranked in the past, holds wins over Ricardo Ramos and Cody Stamann, and is the kind of slick, opportunistic fighter that will make Oliveira pay for any mistakes, especially if he leaves his neck exposed.

This is another measuring stick moment for the second-year man and another quality win over a respected and accomplished talent like Nurmagomedov will go a long way to helping him stand out further in the crowded field of bantamweight hopefuls.

How long would it take you to mention Fares Ziam if you were asked to name UFC lightweights currently riding a four-fight winning streak? The fact that you’re even thinking about the answer is why the somehow still 27-year-old “Smile Killer” is spotlighted here.

Based out of Lyon, France, Ziam is one of those fighters that perpetually flies under the radar in the rugged 155-pound landscape, despite the fact that he’s earned four straight wins and victories in six of his last seven outings. What makes it more interesting is that he’s quite literally coming off his best performance to date: a third-round knockout win over Matt Frevola at last September’s return to Paris that earned him a Performance of the Night bonus and consideration for the Knockout of the Year list.

Like a lot of fighters in his position, it feels like Ziam is overlooked because people are anchored to their initial impressions of him, which is either that of a rail-thin 22-year-old looking anxious inside the Octagon in his debut loss to Don Madge at UFC 242 in Abu Dhabi or his submission defeat at the hands of Terrance McKinney nearly three years ago.

But Ziam won two bouts between those two setbacks, and has looked increasingly sharp since the second of those two losses, posting wins over Michal Figlak, Jai Herbert, and Claudio Puelles prior to dispatching Frevola on home soil back in September. He’s filled out his six-foot-one-inch frame, worked diligently to learn how to use his length to his advantage, and is solid in every facet of the game; exactly what you’re looking for from a fighter entering the prime of their career and trending upwards in a loaded division where older veterans populate much of the Top 15.

This weekend, he steps in with Mike Davis, who similarly is on an understated four-fight winning streak, though injuries and layoffs mean that winning streak began all the way back in 2019 after “Beast Boy” dropped his short-notice promotional debut up a division against Gilbert Burns. When he last fought in March, the 32-year-old Floridian registered a second-round submission win over Natan Levy, further showcasing the grappling skills that have grown to compliment his always slick boxing.

It feels like this could be a year where we see some significant change in the upper levels of the lightweight division, and a big win here for Ziam could catapult him into position to potentially land a date with a Top 15 opponent next time out. He’s looked incredibly sharp as of late, and has “breakout candidate” written all over him heading into his 2025 debut.