
“I just want to see the things I've worked on and see how it manifests in the cage. So I'm just happy to perform and do what I love doing.”

“(I’m) maximizing my potential, putting on a little bit more muscle, just to be able to deal with the weight disparity from light heavyweight to heavyweight. And I just feel better here. I feel healthier. I feel stronger here. And I just can't wait to see how I perform on Saturday night.”

“Helping uplift my community and the people, individuals in my community, is something I thrive on.

“I’m always gonna lock in, and when I'm in MMA mode, I'm locking in MMA mode, but I just feel happy to be part of everything I'm encountering. So thank God, and to God,be the glory, with everything I'm being part of.

“And I just can't wait for Saturday night. Right now, my mind is fixated on Saturday night, and I can't wait to showcase the skills I've acquired over that short amount of time from my last loss until now.”

Nzechuwku carries an air of calmness and serenity about him, but in the white-hot heat of the Octagon, he has proved his ability as a finisher of fights. Eleven of his 14 career wins have come inside the distance, with 10 of them coming via knockout, and he sees another finish being added to his record on Saturday night.

“I just don't see no threat from him,” he said.

“His jiu-jitsu is just not that good. I feel like it's not that good. I know everyone's gonna think I'm crazy, but I just feel like I'm better. We're not really grappling there with jiu-jitsu – we're actually throwing punches, too. So I feel like I'm better.

“Striking-wise, jiu-jitsu-wise, cardio-wise, strength-wise, I feel like I'm better, and I just want to get him out of there in the first round.”

“And I'm just grateful for life in general. I'm grateful for where God has put me, and the position he's put me in – not just for me, but to help my community and to give back to the kids and youth I'm also helping. So I'm just ready – ready to grow, man, I'm ready to roll. I'm thriving right now, I'm good, and I'm feeling great.”

And with Nzechuwku seemingly in a great place, mentally, physically and spiritually, all the pieces seem to be in place for the “African Savage” to deliver a big performance on Saturday night.

“My goal is to finish in the first round – that's my goal,” he stated.

“I need to finish in the first round to know that I have it, because this, in my mind, I've pictured it, and I know it’s gonna end in the first.”

And if he gets the win he’s chasing, his attention will turn back to his other passion – serving his community – as the holiday season approaches.

“Holidays? Church, man. Church,” he said.

“There's so much going on, especially when it comes to just this part of town I live in, and there's so many people being ignored. And when it comes to the homeless and coming from the youth into the teens, I just need to give back.

“There's so much work to be done. No time to slack or no time to just celebrate. We celebrate the victory, dive right back into church, and keep praying and keep motivating.”