Kennedy Nzechukwu may have taken his first defeat as a UFC heavyweight last time out, but if you listened to him speak, you wouldn’t know it.

Nzechukwu arrived in Las Vegas for UFC Fight Night: Royval vs Kape fight week looking chilled, relaxed, and ready for his next assignment. And the 20-fight veteran said he’s just excited to get back into the Octagon and showcase the latest version of himself as he continues his development in the heavyweight division.

Nzechukwu returns to action five months on from his last outing, where he was caught by one of Valter Walker’s notorious heel hook submissions.

It was a frustrating loss, Nzechuwku has quickly addressed it, and used that disappointment to help tighten up that aspect of his game ahead of his matchup with former Brazilian jiu-jitsu world champion Marcus Buchecha on Saturday night.

“The last one didn't go my way. I obviously know how to defend those things, but these things happen for a reason,” he said.

“So I've been addressing that, and knowing that this guy I’m fighting, he is a 16-time jiu-jitsu champion, I now actually feel my jiu-jitsu is better. My MMA jiu-jitsu is better. So I'm not really scared of anything he pulls. I feel like I'm better, MMA-wise, and my MMA jiu-jitsu, I feel like it cancels out his jiu-jitsu, and I'm gonna keep it on the feet.”

Saturday night’s bout with Buchecha will be Nzechukwu’s fourth outing at heavyweight since he took the decision to move up from 205 pounds in 2024. The switch brought immediate success, with back-to-back first-round TKOs of Chris Barnett and Lukasz Brzeski before his quickfire submission loss to Walker in July.

More than a year on from making the jump up to heavyweight, Nzechukwu said he’s happy with how things have gone, and he feels like he has access to his full range of abilities now that he doesn’t have to concern himself with a cut to 205.

“It's been good,” he said.

When he’s not training or competing, Nzechukwu spends his time giving back to others as a minister at Winners Assembly church in South Dallas.

It’s a stark contrast from life in the Octagon, but Nzechukwu wouldn’t have it any other way, and being able to switch between the two very different roles is what helps give him his energy and composure, both inside and outside the fighting arena.

“With me being a minister at church and also helping the youth in my community, it helps me a lot, because that's my passion,” he explained.

For Nzechukwu, Saturday night offers the chance to show his continued growth as a mixed martial artist as he tests his improving skills against one of MMA’s most decorated grapplers.

“I’m learning more about myself. I'm growing as far as my intellect when it comes to MMA, and I'm putting the pieces together slowly,” he explained.