There are countless factors that influence a fighter’s performance on fight night, like their physical preparation, nagging injuries, mindset and more. Max Griffin had all of those dialed in last time out, but he admits he overlooked one of the most fundamental aspects of fight day.

“I didn’t eat on fight day, which is stupid,” Griffin said. “I did everything but that. I do all these types of recovery and mental stuff, but if you do everything else, eating is the most basic function, and I didn’t do that. Locking in on the basics, really learning about my nutrition and what I have to do.

As simple as eating a pre-fight meal may sound, it can have a major impact on performance. It’s something Griffin is determined not to neglect again as he gears up for his matchup with Chris Curtis at UFC Fight Night: Lewis vs Teixeira in Nashville.

“I’m a little leaner, faster, strong,” Griffin said ahead of UFC Nashville. “I feel so good. I woke up Monday smiling. I went to the gym and they’re like, ‘Why are you so happy?’ I don’t know. I’m just letting the energy flow, and I feel so good. I’m excited, I’m happy and ready to go.

A fighter’s motivation can also be shaped by their personal feelings toward an opponent. Lastfight, Griffin saw Michael Chiesa more as a friend than a rival. This time around, things couldn’t be more different.

“Good ol’ Chris Curtis,” Griffin said immediately upon hearing his opponent’s name. “Yeah, he’s not my favorite person. I don’t really like him. For many years. He just rubs me the wrong way, complains a lot, b****** about everything. When I saw the name and I saw Nashville, it was more Nashville that I was pumped about in the text, but he’s a banger. He’s a well-known guy. He’s a middleweight coming down to my division. I know he used to fight welterweight a long time ago and he wants to try something new, but not with me, buddy. It’s going to be a great fight and I’m looking forward to doing all my stuff to him. He’ll be there. He’s not going to run. He’ll be right there right where I want him.

A win over someone like Chris Curtis would be a big step in the right direction for Griffin, who views Saturday’s contest as a chance to redeem himself after his last performance.

“I have so much to show,” Griffin said. “This fight, for me, is about redemption because I could’ve beat Chiesa 99 out of 100 times. That one time was that time. So, I have something to prove to myself on what I know I can do and what I will do. It’s really not about anyone else, it’s about what I know I can accomplish and I’m gonna get that done on Saturday night.”