The UFC is in that non-stop part of the fall schedule where the action just keeps coming hot and heavy week after week, and October has flown by as a result.

Bookended by pay-per-views with international events in between, there was plenty to choose from for this month’s awards, but some obvious selections when it came time to hand out the hardware.

Two fights, two submissions against two game veterans. More importantly, the 29-year-old from Beloeil isn’t physically overmatched in there anymore. Size was his limiting factor at featherweight, but at bantamweight, Jourdain is a tremendous fit and a dangerous new addition to the ranks. Do not be surprised if he lands opposite someone with a number by their name next time out.

Watching a fighter get knocked out in place and then crash to the canvas is equal parts jarring and transfixing; you want to look away because you know seeing them fall is going to be harsh, but at the same time, the impact and the delivery of the knockout blow always leaves you frozen in place, staring as they fall to the ground.

Most months, competitive and technical title fights or main event pairings end up claiming top spot here because there is just more at stake, more gravitas to those pairings, but this month, a pair of veteran lightweights beat the hell outta each other in Vancouver and couldn’t be denied top billing.

If you knew anything about these two going in, then you knew from the minute it was announced that it carried the potential to be an old fashioned slobberknocker. Dober is allergic to boring fights and Prepolec has been chomping at the bit to face someone that would happily stand with him. Once they were in the Octagon, they exceeded expectations by combining for a wildly entertaining clash that rightfully earned Fight of the Night honors and featured a furious finish.

Deadlocked at one round each after the first 10 minutes of these two beating the stuffing out of one another, the action was paused early in the third round after Dober inadvertently connected with a nasty low blow that left Prepolec teetering on the edge of not being able to continue. The partisan crowd let Dober hear it and the referee docked him a point, which made it so the best the Denver-based veteran could hope was a draw if he couldn’t find a finish… so Dober made sure it didn’t go the distance.

On the restart, he charged across the Octagon and took it to Prepolec, who tried valiantly to weather the onslaught, but couldn’t, resulting in the bout being halted.

Not only was this a wildly entertaining scrap between two veteran bangers who left a little bit of themselves out there in the cage for all eternity, but Dober’s ferocious pursuit of the finish is also a solid little instructional moment for how you’d like to see people handle themselves in those situations. He understood the situation before him and ratcheted up the urgency, making sure to get himself the win rather than rolling the dice with the results by not stepping on the gas.