
As we draw nearer to Zhang putting her title on the line for a third time in her second stint atop the division, let’s look back on some of the iconic championship moments of the past in the latest edition of The 10.

After stopping Jędrzejczyk in just over three minutes in their first meeting, there was no question that the fallen champion was going to get an immediate rematch, which came at UFC 223 in Brooklyn. The lead-up to fight was tame between the two, but chaotic elsewhere, as Namajunas was on the bus in the bowels of Barclays Center when Conor McGregor and his entourage came looking for Russian lightweight standout Khabib Nurmagomedov.

Zhang chased her down, continued to attack with knees, and put the champion on the canvas, ending the fight in a flash while becoming the first Chinese fighter to claim UFC gold.

Officially, Zhang won by split decision, with two of the three 48-47 scorecards falling in her favor, but this is one of those bouts where it honestly didn’t feel like there were any losers, especially when you consider that only one round — the third — was scored the same across the board, with the challenger getting the nod from all three judges.

For Zhang, it was the type of memorable battle that instantaneously cemented her status as champion and silenced any questions about her title win and the speed with which she ascended to the top of the division. If every champion needs that one classic fight to truly connect with the audience, this was it for Zhang.

Standing in the center of the Octagon, Namajunas flicked a left high kick up with such speed, power, and dexterity that Zhang didn’t have a chance to react before foot met chin and she crashed to the canvas.

Zhang became the third two-time champion in strawweight division history by storming through Esparza at UFC 281, submitting her in the second round. She then successfully defended her title against Amanda Lemos at UFC 292 in Boston before teaming with Yan in the first all-Chinese championship fight in UFC history at last year’s historic tricentennial event at T-Mobile Arena.

This fight feels like one that gets mis-remembered based on the final scorecards, which read 49-45 across the board for Zhang, who earned 10-8 scores for her emphatic second-round effort before Yan won the third on all three scorecards.

Think about that for a second: Zhang was on the brink of securing a finish in the second, dominating to the point that all three judges didn’t hesitate to award her a 10-8 round, and then Yan marched right back out in the third and forced her way back into the fight.

What’s lost on the scorecards is that the challenger was having continued success in the fourth before Zhang tapped into her energy reserves and began to rally, working all the way back to win the round and cruise through the fifth to secure what looks like a lopsided victory on paper.