UFC 315 will see Jose Aldo make the walk to compete in his 42nd professional MMA fight as the former undisputed UFC featherweight champion and UFC Hall of Famer continues his evergreen career on the sport’s biggest stage.

Aldo is in his 21st year as a professional MMA fighter and, after already conquering the world at featherweight, he’s looking to give his stellar career an Indian summer by capturing championship gold at bantamweight.

With 22 Octagon appearances under his belt, Aldo has been part of the furniture in the UFC, and it’s gotten to the point where he’s facing fighters whose careers only got started while the Brazilian was already on top of the world.

Case in point: Aldo’s opponent on Saturday, Aiemann Zahabi, may only be a year younger than him, but the Canadian made his professional MMA debut the same year we saw Aldo dive into the Rio crowd to celebrate his knockout of Chad Mendes at UFC 142 – in his third UFC featherweight title defense.

“Yeah, it’s funny,” said Aldo.

It may be part of the job, but for a fighter who has been there, seen it, done it, and has the championship belts to prove it, surely the motivation must start to wane as he prepares to defend spot at number 11 in the official UFC bantamweight rankings against Zahabi, who is listed 15th.

Nope. Not at all, he insisted.

“I believe motivation is always sky-high,” he said.

Aldo’s motivation is further sharpened by what happened in his last Octagon appearance, where he found himself on the wrong end of a split-decision verdict against Mario Bautista at UFC 307 last October.

“I’m sorry about my language, I was so pissed about my performance,” he admitted.

And, while Aldo is treating each of his opponents with due respect, he also says that the experience he’s gathered in his 20-year career means that no fight can offer him anything he hasn’t already seen and dealt with before. The onus, he said, is on him to show up and deliver, and for his opponents to try to keep up.

“Everyone knows who I am. They all study me. They lose sleep knowing they’llface me. They know I have power,” he said.

“With everything that I've got, why should I worry about my opponent, after everything I went through and after facing so many opponents?

“I put that aside, leaving that for Dedé [Pederneiras, his head coach at Nova Uniaogym], the coaches, and the rest of the team. They analyze what he does best. I have to go in there and do as I train at the gym – that is, kick some ass.”

At 38 years of age, and with 42 fights to his Hall of Fame career, Aldo clearly thinks there’s still plenty left in the tank, and ahead of UFC 315 this weekend, says that from a skill and nutrition standpoint, he has never been better. And while his 2020 tilt at the bantamweight title ended in defeat to Petr Yan at UFC 251, he insists he still has what it takes to reach the UFC’s bantamweight summit.

“Well, it's funny. A little while ago I said it's like wine, it gets better with age,” he said.