
This is going to be a little on the nose, but tough; it’s been stuck in my head since Merab Dvalishvili talked about continuing to evolve his game and get a little more aggressive in his pursuit of finishes:

Remember in Terminator 2: Judgment Day, when we first see the T-1000 doing all his “well that’s new” T-1000 stuff like being all liquid and pulling his head back together after being shot? My reaction to that moment is akin to my reaction to seeing Dvalishvili submit Sean O’Malley to retain his bantamweight title in the UFC 316 main event.

Think about it: the OG Terminator was dangerous and menacing enough, and now there was this evolutionary version that had new tricks, new skills, and figuring out how to deal with him became even more difficult.

Dvalishvili was already dominant, entering the contest on a 12-fight winning streak and having left a trail of frustrated, exhausted bodies in his wake. Then on Saturday night, he came in doing OG Terminator things before shifting into T-1000 mode in the third round. After depositing O’Malley on the canvas, securing the position, and roughing him up a little bit, the champion attacked a no-arm D’Arce choke-slash-ninja choke variant that was immediately threatening and became downright inescapable as he rolled with O’Malley, who wasdesperately trying to escape.

With all due respect to Dominick Cruz, who ruled the division across two organizations, multiple reigns, and several excellent wins, this run Dvalishvili is on is next level, rivaling some of the best overall runs any champion has had as they’ve worked their way towards the title and into their time on the throne. His last seven victories have come against former champions or title challengers, and he upped the ante on Saturday night by submitting O’Malley.

The 34-year-old is an absolute menace for anyone that shares the Octagon with him, and a joy to watch as a fan. What makes it even better — in my opinion — is that he is active and wants to stay that way. Saturday was his second successful title defense of the year, and before he stepped out of the cage, he was already publicly welcoming a fight with Cory Sandhagen, the presumptive No. 1 contender.

Dvalishvili is on an insane run and seemingly getting better. If he can successfully defend his title again, he’ll match his close friend and training partner Aljamain Sterling for the most consecutive successful title defenses in bantamweight history, and move to two wins shy of equaling Anderson Silva’s record for the most consecutive UFC victories.

At this moment, dethroning Dvalishvili looks like it’s going to be a Herculean task, but watching people try as the champion defends his position is going to remain wildly entertaining theatre.

The two-time Olympic gold medal-winning judoka did well to dictate the terms of engagement and force Pena backwards, allowing her to eventually close the distance, take the fight to the canvas, and control the action. In the first round, that resulted in Pena being penalized for a pair of illegal upkicks that landed while Harrison was grounded, and in the second, it led to the late finish.

Situated in top position close to the fence, directly in front of her team, Harrison initially began hunting for an arm-triangle choke, working to burrow her head up and under Pena’s left arm. She got close, but seemed to recognize that her proximity to the fence would limit her ability to finish, as would the champion’s defensive work. So instead, Harrison switched off to a kimura as the 10-second clapper sounded, trapping the wrist and torquing the shoulder, bringing an immediate tap from Pena.

Few forecasted that it would come from his unheralded opponent, Mario Bautista.

The MMA Lab representative was crisp and quick from the outset, popping Mix’s head back with swift punches as the newcomer stood flat-footed, happy to engage on the feet. As the fight progressed, the dynamics didn’t really change, as Bautista continued to stick Mix with clean shots, bloodying his mouth en route to a clean sweep of the scorecards and an eighth straight victory in the treacherous 135-pound weight class.

There might not be a more low-key contender in the UFC at the moment than the 31-year-old Bautista, who very seldom posts on social media and somehow says less, which keeps him stationed in the shadows in today’s attention-forward landscape. But his performances continue to speak volumes, and after edging out Jose Aldo in a competitive, low-output bout last October, Bautista left no room for debate on Saturday in turning Mix’s debut into his breakout effort.

Eight-fight winning streaks aren’t easy to come by in any weight class, and even more challenging to accumulate in a division like bantamweight, where the competition is ferocious. Bautista has gotten there without much fanfare, but that should change going forward, as his performance was close to flawless and he’s likely to find himself stationed next to someone with a single digit next to their name next time out.

Joe Pyfer collected a quality win over Kelvin Gastelum on Saturday’s main card, battering the former interim title challenger in the opening round before holding on down the stretch. The 28-year-old is now 5-1 in the UFC and continuing to make strides, positioning himself as one to keep tabs on in the deepening middleweight division.

Kevin Holland wrapped up a second-round submission win over Vicente Luque in the main card opener, winning the first round while jawing at the Brazilian throughout before diving on the fight-ended finish early in the middle stanza. It’s his second win in three starts this year, and he said he’s sticking around at welterweight going forward, which adds even more intrigue to the already captivating weight class.

Azamat Murzakanov returned to action with a first-round stoppage win over Brendson Ribeiro in his adopted home state of New Jersey. “The Professional” is 15-0 overall and likely to climb a little higher in the light heavyweight rankings following this weekend’s win, which should also produce a more high profile pairing next time, which is something he lobbied for following the impressive finish of his Brazilian foe.

Andreas Gustafsson established himself as a fun addition to the welterweight ranks with an unrelenting unanimous decision win over Khaos Williams. The self-proclaimed “least technical fighter on the roster” overwhelmed Williams from the outset, using his Greco-Roman wrestling acumen and all-around ruggedness to garner a lopsided win in his promotional debut.

JooSang Yoo produced one of the best debut wins of the year on the early prelims, hitting Jeka Saragih with a short left hook that instantly shut off his lights and sent him crashing down the canvas, face first. “Zombie Jr.” is undefeated, and if he keeps bringing this kind of smoke to the proceedings, he will be a fan favorite in no time.

While it’s going to be difficult to garner another championship opportunity as long as Dvalishvili remains on the throne, the 30-year-old from Arizona is a big enough star and skilled enough fighter to keep himself on the edges of the title conversation going forward. Following the blueprint laid out by Joseph Benavidez when he was in the same position at flyweight several years ago would make a lot of sense, even if it does potentially knock a couple ascending names out of the championship chase along the way.

Tyson Chartier said in our Coach Conversation for this fight that he was curious to see how O’Malley would respond to a second consecutive setback, and now he has the opportunity to find out. If the way the former champion stuck around to thank the crowd at Prudential Center following the loss is any indication, I think he’s going to be just fine.