A couple months after coming up short in The Ultimate Fighter Season 32 middleweight finale, Robert Valentin could not find the motivation to get out of bed, let alone go to the gym and train.

“When I started training MMA, I was watching The Ultimate Fighter, and I was like, “Wow — I want to be there some day. I want to be the Ultimate Fighter.’ So getting there and having such a big impact on the show, I put all the hope of the fans on myself, and going to the finale, I was feeling like it was the best time in my life.

“I worked hard. I was in shape. I knew what I brought to the fight and what he was going to do. I knew what I had to do and being unable to do that, going back home after this fight — f***, I was depressed. I was really depressed.”

It wasn’t just the loss that sent Valentin into a dark place; it was the way he lost, combined with the added weight he’d heaped onto his shoulders after garnering a ton of positive feedback from people that watched the show and latched onto the dangerous finisher who took on a coaching and leadership role as part of Team Grasso.

And when the surgeries meant he couldn’t go back to the gym and train, Valentin got stuck in his head, stuck wrestling with his own thoughts, and spent the next several weeks losing a battle with his own mind.

Thankfully, his close friends eventually recognized that something was off with their usually gregarious comrade, ultimately resulting in the group running a little “bait and switch” on the UFC hopeful.

“I tried to hide it from everyone because how I felt inside; I didn’t want everyone to know because everyone was excited for me because I still got signed. But, for me, I was big timedepressed.

The meeting turned out to be a mini-intervention; Valentin was the guy they saw needed help.

“I was always saying, ‘I will go back,’ but I couldn’t get up. I felt so down, so my friends were just like, ‘Here! Get on the plane!’ I arrived in Thailand, I went to the gym, and I was like, ‘F*** yes!’

“I’m really grateful for my friends and how they saw through everything,” he added. “You know how it is sometimes where you’re kind of hoping they will see through it, but your pride won’t let you say anything. You would never come up to them and say, ‘Hey, I feel like s***!’ but it’s such a blessing if they come up to you and say, ‘I can see you’re not doing well; let me help you.’”

In theory, the six-inch height advantage should be a mark in the plus column for Valentin, but the thoughtful middleweight understands that these things can work both ways, and there are other things he needs to lean on in order to have success on Saturday night.

“What all these wrestlers forget when they fight me is that I’m very comfortable on the ground — I’m a grappler, mainly — but for this fight, we’ve prepared to not even let this be a grappling match,” continued Valentin, who is 11-4 with one no contest heading into his sophomore appearance under the UFC banner. “I think my advantages are the reach, obviously, but also my speed and durability. If you’re a short, muscular guy, you’re going to gas out a little bit quicker, and cardio has always been something that I value a lot and put a lot of work into, and we did for this camp.”

More than the measurables and the individual elements you can focus on specifically in camp, the biggest thing Valentin will lean on this weekend is a genuine love of being out there, under the lights, getting into a fight.

“I just need to be me,” he said, offering up his personal key to the fight. “I f***ing love to be in there, and, to be honest, this last fight, with all the pressure of the Ultimate Fighter finale and all this stuff, it kind of made me forget how much I love this.

“I was like, ‘I have to win because everybody expects me to win’ and this and that, so I kind of went into this place of (makes an angry face) and that’s not how I go out there.

“I get shaky thinking about it. I cannot put it into words.”