
The breakout star of the most recent season of the long-running reality TV series, the Team Grasso fighter carried the weight of the masses on his shoulders into his matchup with Ryan Loder and had no real answers opposite the former All-American wrestler. Post-match surgeries meant he couldn’t get straight back at it, and as the days on the sidelines turned to weeks, the engaging and charismatic Swiss talent started carrying around a secret that he could not bring himself to share with anyone.

“I’ve had losses in my career before and they’ve never sat heavy with me before; I’d lose a fight, and the next day, I’m in the gym like, ‘Let’s go!’” began Valentin, explaining why his loss to Loder impacted him so deeply just a few days prior to his return to action against Torrez Finney at the UFC APEX this weekend. “But you only get the chance to fight on the Ultimate Fighter finale once in your life — unless you’re Brad Katona — and this was something that I aspired to, was working for since I started MMA.

“I had a lot of help from my friends,” started Valentin when asked how he worked his way through the depression, eventually getting to a point where he could resume his pursuit of success inside the Octagon. “Some of my really close friends, we have a ritual: once a week, we meet in our restaurant on Tuesday nights to talk, and I came there, and my friends were like, ‘Rob, what’s up with you? We can see in your face that you’re not where you’re supposed to be.’

“A week later, they set me up for a meeting,” he continued, smiling. “They were like ‘Hey Rob, we have to meet with this one guy; he has some issues and we need to help him.’ I was like, ‘All right.’

“I walk in there and all my friends are sitting around the table, and they were like, ‘Okay Rob. Here’s your ticket — business class flight to Thailand, you leave tomorrow, and we want you out of here.’”

A return to Thailand and the mats at BangTao helped “Robzilla” start to turn a corner, and eventually to him accepting the opportunity to welcome Finney to the Octagon for the first time this weekend in what is visually going to be one of the larger size disparities in recent memory.

While Valentin stands six-foot-two, brandishing a 77-inch reach, Finney is compact and muscular, standing five-foot-eight.

“It’s very hard,” he said with a smirk when asked about preparing for the stocky Finney, who enters with a perfect 10-0 mark after earning a pair of victories last season on Dana White’s Contender Series. “We’ve been sparring with a lot of short wrestlers. George (Hickman) would throw me in there with short wrestlers that are stocky.

“For me, I’m always a kid in a candy shop,” he added, smiling. “I’m not a guy that loves to train; I’m a guy that loves to fight, so the mindset for this one is to remember that the Robert from a couple years ago would have died to be in there, to have this opportunity, so enjoy it; this is your happy place.”

After putting too much pressure on himself last August, faltering, and finding himself stuck in a dark place, the prospect of striding into the Octagon, fighting with joy and passion, and securing a win is something that Valentin cannot put into words.

“Man…,” he began, searching for a way to give voice to the emotions clearly coursing through his body as the thought of a UFC victory this weekend raced through his mind.