With the next season of Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) rapidly approaching, it feels fitting that this space is dedicated to highlighting a trio of recent graduates that will be making the walk this weekend at UFC 318.

Through its first eight seasons, the annual talent search series has been an unequivocal success, and anyone arguing otherwise at this point is simply overlooking the massive numbers of quality talents that have matriculated to the Octagon year-after-year. Have there been some misses and some seasons that were more successful and productive than others? Of course, but through eight seasons, Dana White’s Contender Series has produced two champions, multiple title challengers, numerous contenders, and introduced people to The Fighting Nerds, with the two most recent classes of grads still in the early stages of their UFC journeys, but already showing promise.

Two of those competitors that have already piqued the audience’s interest compete this weekend at Smoothie King Center in New Orleans, while the third member of this week’s triumvirate is another member of the Class of ’24 that will be stepping into the Octagon for the first time on Saturday.

Here’s a closer look at the ascending talents.

While looks can be deceiving and physical appearance or attributes guarantee you nothing in this sport, there is no denying that the 23-year-old middleweight has the size, physique, and all-around appearance of someone that you don’t necessarily want to be standing across the cage from on a random summer Saturday night. Standing six-foot-four with a long reach and the kind of muscle definition you generally only see in sketches of all the muscles in the human body, the promising UFC rookie is the kind of competitor that brings top-end athleticism into the Octagon as part of his foundation, which automatically gives him a leg up in these early days of his career.

It was the kind of statement win that makes you eager to see a fighter return to action, and fans get their wish on Saturday as “The Silent Assassin” makes his sophomore voyage into the UFC cage to square off with recent TUF finalist Robert Valentin. It’s an interesting test for the relatively inexperienced native of Cameroon, and one that could provide a few insights about the rest of his game and where he’s at in his development.

Saturday is a good second test for the Season 8 alum, and if he once again passes with flying colors, another slight step up in competition and a bigger bandwagon will be in order.

The good thing is that the depth of the welterweight division should afford him that opportunity to come along slowly.