Key Stats: 4.69 strikes landed per minute, 2.02 takedowns averaged per 15 minutes, 0.99 knockdowns per 15 minutes (4th among FW)

Key Stats: 20 finishes (1st all-time), 16 submissions (1st all-time), 20 total fight night bonuses (1st all-time)

Key Stats: 7 finishes (tied 1st all-time among FLW), 47.4% takedown accuracy (8th all-time among FLW), 4 title wins (2nd all-time among FLW)

Key Stats: 3 KO/TKO wins (tied-6th all-time among FLW), 8 knockdowns landed (2nd all-time among FLW), 88% takedown defense (3rd all-time among FLW)

What It Means: “Don’t Blink” is arguably the premier knockout artist in the flyweight division. Kara-France isn’t the most physically imposing, but his ability to land powerful punches in a technical manner is what makes him such a tricky problem for opponents. Whether it’s with a big overhand, an uppercut, or a heavy shot at the end of a combination, the Kiwi just finds a way to land a big shot. He can also connect while switching stances in the middle of a striking sequence, which makes his distance management tricky. Kara-France’s defensive grappling is tight. He likes to get his work done early with footwork and circling off the Octagon, but he also has shown great break-in-case-of-emergency defense.

Key Stats: +1.4 striking differential (4th all-time among FLW), 3 submission wins (tied-4th all-time among FLW), 4.46 strikes landed per minute (8th all-time among FLW)

What It Means: The self-proclaimed most entertaining fighter in the division often lives up to that expectation with a high work rate and a willingness to just try stuff sometimes. In general, he is light on his feet and likes to pepper opponents with long-range strikes, especially with light jabs and kicks before going into a spinning attack or initiating a grappling exchange. He is active when wrestling and can find a tricky submission whether he is on top or off his back.

What It Means: The self-proclaimed most entertaining fighter in the division often lives up to that expectation with a high work rate and a willingness to just try stuff sometimes. In general, he is light on his feet and likes to pepper opponents with long-range strikes, especially with light jabs and kicks before going into a spinning attack or initiating a grappling exchange. He is active when wrestling and can find a tricky submission whether he is on top or off his back.

Key Stats: 8.2 strikes landed per minute (1st all-time), +2.94 striking differential (1st all-time among FLW), 81.1% takedown defense (tied-6th all-time among FLW)