
“When you are an active fighter, you definitely value them, you definitely honor them, but you cannot just look up to them like ‘this is my trophy’ because when you’re an active fighter, you don’t allow that. You have to move forward. It’s a fight, it’s real, so you have to be in the moment.

“It definitely means a lot, but to truly focus on what achievements you have, you’re only able to do that when you’re done-done.”

“I know people who know me, who watch my fights, who really understand what martial arts is, they knew who I was, so I didn’t have to remind anyone. It’s definitely good when things are the right way.”

As much as that sounds like a fairly basic statement and a sentiment that would be shared by most that pursue a career inside the UFC Octagon, it lands differently coming from the two-time champion, whose entire life is built around training, competing, and growing as a martial artist.

There is a pointedness to her declaration, a sharpness that again underlines that this isn’t a hope or dream for her; this might be the only thing that matters to her, at least professionally, and candidly, it’s not even necessarily something she finds enjoyment in pursuing.

“I would say it’s very hard to find the right word for this,” began the thoughtful champion when asked if she enjoys training, competing, and working to show, time and again, that she is the best fighter in the 125-pound weight class. "It’s not ‘enjoy’ how you enjoy a quiet evening, watching a beautiful movie, drinking some hot chocolate, nice and cozy; it’s not this type of enjoyment.

“It’s not enjoyment when you have to wake up early in the morning and you know it’s going to be a hard training session in front of you,” she added, speaking with a seriousness that makes it clear that she knows the weight of all the sacrifices and struggles that come with wanting to be at the top of her division. “You have to put your mind together, because you know you’re gonna be beaten, you know you’re gonna be sore, you know you’re gonna be hurt and you have to hurt people as well — I don’t know if you can really name it ‘enjoy.’”

So why does she continue to put herself through all of it?

“Because I love martial arts,” she answered, a smile quickly coming to her face. “Martial arts, for me, is my life; I was born to do these things.

“This is our life, as fighters, how we are made; what we have to pass to become our best version, and I definitely know that every time I have to pass these struggles, these challenges, I’m reborn as a better person, as a better version of the fighter, as a better version of myself.

“This is the passion that I enjoy the most about martial arts,” she added. “It’s not only ‘enjoy the moment,’ but it’s enjoy the path, enjoy the journey of being a martial artist.”

“Everyone wants to fight for the title. I don’t know any fighter that joins the best MMA promotion and says, ‘I’m here to hang out.’ No, Goal No. 1 is to fight for the title and everyone definitely is trying to rush it.

“I want to do as much as I can here.”