
“I tell people this all the time: heavyweights break the rules,” continued the newcomer, who represents Portugal and trains at FightZone London under the watchful eye of Stuart Austin. “Heavyweights break the rules in terms of technique and positions. Sometimes they’re not the most technical, but you try to double leg a heavyweight and it's just not there. The way they escape, the way they’re built, they break the rules. They’re thick, they’re wide, you can't just get your hooks in on a back-take.

In addition to wanting to be an enigma in the division, the thoughtful and well-spoken freshman also wants to have a career that earns him a place the pantheon of all-time greats when it’s all said and done.

“I want that world title, man; I want to be one of the greats,” he said, articulating his ambitions and recognizing he’s about to start down that road bringing a smile to his face. “I said this since I started MMA, started as an amateur: I want to be one of the greats; go as far as I can.

“I didn’t come this far just to get this far, d’you know what I mean? I’m here to cement my legacy, representing Portugal, British MMA, European MMA.”

“I don’t want to take a lot of damage, but I think cage time is priceless, experience is priceless, and understanding — especially in the heavyweight division, and I think heavyweights struggle with this — understanding that I can’t always be the hammer, especially as a heavyweight.

“There is always going to be a bigger, stronger guy. There’s always gonna be a brick house in front of me, so I have to take my time, learn how to fight as the lighter guy; I’ve gotta be the one that moves, be like a cat. I can’t be the berserker all the time. That’s why I didn’t wanna rush.

“Everything has been building, building, building; getting cage time — I’ve done 25 minutes and that was a good experience for me,” he added. “I believe fighters who go to decision know how to win. It’s fun to knock someone out, but when you need to know how to win a fight, when you know, ‘I’m not gonna knock this guy out; I’m gonna have to go to a decision.’ You have to push the pace, land more shots, sequence your shots, and make sure the judges can understand that.

“My motto is death by a thousand cuts. It doesn’t matter how long it’s gonna take to get the W, but I’ll get the W eventually.”

But the Portuguese rookie is ready for that too.

“My plans are now coming to fruition, and I have to take it one day at a time; I don’t complicate things. I have to live in the moment where I am right now.

“Don’t get me wrong: I have my moments where I freak out, but you’ve got to ride the waveand enjoy it, because at the end of the day, it’s just a fight,” he added with a laugh. “As much as I give my life to the this game, I’m very fortunate to have people that care about me, regardless of what happens.”

“I kind of like what Sean O’Malley did: he fought the right fights, built his brand, and so when he was champion, he was all set.