Nathan Fletcher is excited to be a part of a talent-stacked UFC bantamweight division, and the Englishman plans on showcasing his credentials as a potential contender of the future with a big display at UFC Vegas 108 this weekend.

Fletcher returns to action on Saturday night at the UFC APEX, where he’ll face Japan’s Rinya Nakamura in a matchup between two bantamweights with big plans for the future.

Both men see their futures at the sharp end of the bantamweight division, and for Fletcher, he sees Nakamura as an ideal next step on his UFC journey.

The bout offers Fletcher a chance to bounce back after his split decision defeat to Caolan Loughran at UFC London in March in a fight that many felt he’d done enough to win.

Despite not picking up the win on that occasion, Fletcher has benefited from returning to his team at Next Generation MMA. The Liverpool-based camp is much more than just a team, as he explained.

“I think your team (is) everything. We've got a family feel in there,” he said.

With the support of his Next Generation MMA family around him, Fletcher has been taking the positives from his recent defeat, and said that his ability to assess that outcome without too much frustration and emotion will help him improve moving forward.

“I think that was a big thing, just being able to look at it logically for what it was,” he explained.

Fletcher now faces Namakura at the UFC APEX in a bout he hopes can propel him into the group of talented up-and-comers in the UFC’s stacked bantamweight division.

“My division is very exciting at the minute. You've obviously got the top 15 guys. But then just outside of that, you've got the likes of Topuria’s brother (Alexandre). You've got (the likes of) Payton Talbott (and) Malcolm Wellmaker, who’s making a big splash now. So there's these other young prospects on the rise. I want to throw Nathan Fletcher's name into the mix with all of them.

Victory would put him on the path he wants to be on, as he looks to become one of the most notable prospects in the division. To do that, he wants to be as active as possible, and he admitted that, results aside, his UFC run to date has been pretty much as he’d expected.

“This is how I envisioned my UFC career going,” he said.

To move one step closer to that, Fletcher will have to overcome the odds as he prepares to fight in the unfamiliar role of underdog this weekend.

Fletcher even has a preferred way to get it, too.

“Off the top of my head, I'd like to take him down,” he said.