If you’ve ever watched Ailín Pérez fight, then you’re probably well aware of her signature victory dance: the twerk. And these days, she’s been twerking quite a bit.

“No one works harder than her,” her manager Martin Pakciarz once told me. “All the coaches who have ever worked with her say she is the first to show up and last one to leave the gym. She also is a single mother who does everything for her son while maintaining a pro athlete lifestyle. She handles it all very well and she is a great mother.”

Born in 1994 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Pérez grew up watching her brothers’ passion for rugby, and wanted a contact sport she could call her own. By age 12, she started training in Sanda and Kung Fu, which remains the core of her fighting style. To date, she’s collected a red belt in Kung Fu, a purple belt in Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu and multiple titles, including South American Sanda Champion (twice), South American MMA Bantamweight Champion (twice) and champion in  Samurai Fight House promotion, which attracted the notice of the UFC.

Saturday’s contest against No. 9 Rosa might be the stiffest challenge of her run to date. One of the most well-rounded fighters in the division, the Brazilian boasts nearly-equal mastery of BJJ and Muay Thai, and has used that lethal combination to turn back established talents like Yana Santos, Pannie Kianzad and Lina Lansberg.

Pérez sees Rosa only as the last roadblock to a top ten ranking and a row of opponents that she aims of pick off, one by one. And the Goat Shed Academy protégé has called them all by their names, starting with Norma Dumont.

Dumont is the fighter that shares Pérez’s four-fight win streak at bantamweight, and has won five straight overall going back to her run at featherweight. The two have exchanged words for years, dating back to when Dumont—after defeating Karol Rosa--called out Pérez. It was puzzling, considering Pérez was 0-1 in the UFC at the time, but it spoke to her uncanny ability to get under the skin of her competition.

Kayla Harrison has also been mentioned by Pérez, because shooters shoot.

"I got some big ovaries," she laughed backstage in New Jersey. "I want to prove I can do this in five rounds."