
Rosas Jr., who makes his sixth UFC start this weekend opposite veteran Vince Morales, is still just 20 years old, an age where the ability to learn new things, synthesize information, and grow by leaps and bounds between each fight is at its highest. While his sights remain set on breaking Jon Jones’ record for being the youngest champion in UFC history, he still has several years left in order to achieve that goal, and the improvements he could very likely make between each appearance is a big part of why the Dana White’s Contender Series grad is the first fighter to target that achievement that feels like he has a realistic chance of making it happen.

“I did a lot of camp with Anthony Njokuani and Chidi Njokuani,” began Rosas Jr., explaining who he’s been working with in the time between his bout at Noche UFC last fall and Saturday’s main card clash with Morales. “A lot of boxing off camp with Eddy Reynoso and at other places in El Paso, Texas. A lot of grappling and rounds training with “Cobrinha” (Rubens Charles Maciel) and Kennedy Maciel, and, at the end, training with my father and my brothers.

The pairing with Morales is a somewhat surprising one, as while Rosas Jr. arrives on a three-fight winning streak, the 34-year-old veteran has landed on the wrong side of the cards in each of his two appearances since returning to the promotion last fall in Paris.

That being said, Morales, like most competitors in the bantamweight division, boasts a significant experience advantage over his counterpart on Saturday, and has shared the Octagon with a host of current or formerly ranked fighters in the 135-pound weight class, including Song Yadong, Aiemann Zahabi, and Chris Gutierrez.

As much as this looks like a favorable pairing on paper, Rosas Jr. doesn’t want to just go out there and collect another win on the scorecards. He has goals for 2025 that he wants to achieve, and he knows the key to making that happen is to put on a show against Morales on Saturday night.

“Just a nice finish — whether it’s by knockout or submission; a clean performance,” he said in regards to what he needs to do against Morales in order to move closer to reaching those 2025 goals. “I’m excited to go out there and make it look easy.