
After Juliana Miller and Thomas Petersen used their superior grappling skills to collect much-needed wins over Ivana Petrovic and Don’Tale Mayes, respectively, the stoppages started to roll in. Quang Le wrestled Gaston Bolanos to the canvas and choked him all the way out in the second round before Gillian Robertson continued her march forward in the strawweight ranks with a second-round TKO finish of Marina Rodriguez. From there, Azamat Bekoev continued to make his case as one of the top newcomers of the year so far with a second straight first-round stoppage win before Yana Santos closed things out with a unanimous decision win over former champ Miesha Tate.

Santos was crisp from the outset, moving well and busting up Tate with long jabs while doing well to stuff the persistent takedown attempts from the former titleholder. Tate secured a takedown early in the third and moved to mount, putting Santos in a bad spot, but the Russian veteran wisely gave up her back, where she was able to defend the submission attempts and survive to the final horn.

When the judges scorecards were collected, it was in fact Santos that emerged victorious, securing her second straight win. This was a sharp outing with sharp, tactical decision-making from the veteran, whose striking looked impressive throughout the first two rounds.

The 29-year-old was in complete control from the outset, spending the majority of the first round working from top position after dragging Rodriguez to the canvas. In the second, an early takedown landed Robertson in top position again, but this time, the Canadian climbed into mount and unleashed a torrent of strikes that forced the stoppage.

Robertson has now won four straight and five of six since returning to the 115-pound weight class, establishing herself as an ascending threat. She’s grown by leaps and bounds since first arriving on the biggest stage in the sport, and continues to show further improvements each time out, transforming herself into a uniquely dangerous dark horse in the competitive division.

Following the contest, Rodriguez took off her gloves and announced her retirement from active competition. The Brazilian was a fixture in the Top 15 throughout her UFC run, exiting the Octagon with a record of 7-6-2 in the promotion and 17-6-2 overall.

Petrovic was the sharper of the two in the opening frame, having more success on the feet and doing well to thwart Miller’s attempts to grapple. But in the second and third, the former TUF winner was able to find her way to the back, where she settled in, hunting for chokes and landing sporadic blows while Petrovic struggled to wriggle free and escape the position.

The judges were tasked with determining the victor in the first bout of the night, and when the scorecards were collected and totalled, it was Miller that came out ahead. Fighting for the first time since the summer of 2023, the win snapped a two-fight skid for the emotional 28-year-old, who dedicated the fight to her grandmother who recently passed.