
“Naw, dude — it makes you second-guess everything you do; not only in fighting, but in life. When you struggle with chemical imbalance and you struggle innately with it, you’ll go through sections of your life like you’re in a bad dream, and you don’t even know you’re dreaming. All of a sudden, something happens where your brain regulates for a second — this is why I train so much — and the veil is lifted, and you’re like, ‘Where the f***? Who the f*** is that guy?’

"You’re constantly struggling to stay attached and present, taking your surroundings in for what they are and not what they’re perceived to be in your mental state.”

In a sport where bravado and unshakable belief in oneself feel like prerequisites, the former champion and current challenger was quick to connect the dots between his constant struggles with self-doubt and his near-permanent presence in the gym.

“If I had to be honest with myself, it’s probably why I train so much leading up to a fight and why I spar so much,” he said when asked the impact it has had on his career. “Training is like a little bit of serotonin in my brain; it keeps me level.

“If I go through long portions without training, I don’t even realize it’s happening, but I start seeing the world from a different perspective. Training is my little drug-free happy pill that lets my brain level out and see things clearly.”

"If we knew, there wouldn't be betting, there wouldn’t be odds, there wouldn't be upsets, there wouldn't be underdogs.

“I know that I did everything in my power to train for this fight,” he added. “I had the best camp, I had the best training partners. Everything has been done, so now we must do and just see what happens.”

“I’m in the wrong f***ing sport. I’m a boxer who is an MMA fighter.”

“Maybe I’ll do the right things this time and f***ing wrestle, but you never know until you’re in there and you’re bleeding down your face in the fourth round, and you’re like, “All right, man — should I wrestle now?”

“Winning on a personal level drives me more than winning a belt on a public level.”

“I gotta be sharper, be crisper, down the pipe better. I have to read better. I have to see and use my eyes better. I have to be sharper and have better cardio.

“And I have to be better.”