
In the accompanying caption, the ascending talent said the following:

It might sound crazy, but if I never did anything else in my career and ended up back in construction, I’d still be grateful to God for the success I was given.

I brought light to my city and inspired the next generation, I put my day one team’s name on the big screen, and I know for sure I’ve used the position I’m in to change some lives for the better.

And that’s more than I ever thought I would do…

It might sound crazy, but if I never did anything else in my career and ended up back in construction, I’d still be grateful to God for the success I was given.

I brought light to my city and inspired the next generation, I put my day one team’s name on the big screen, and I know for sure I’ve used the position I’m in to change some lives for the better.

And that’s more than I ever thought I would do…

The fact that he’s already making a positive impact in his community — not to mention building a better future for his son (a.k.a. Baby Walla) — means more to him than anything he’s accomplished to date in his fighting career.

“Even with just the small amount of success I’ve had, people see the integrity I carry with me, and it pushes them to want to be that kind of person that is gonna be respectful, gonna be honest, humble, no matter what type of attention or success they find, and that’s where the real value is,” he said. “I do hope to also impress the UFC and the MMA community and Dana White, too, but the mayor of the city is calling me to city council meetings to recognize me, and all these schools and kids are recognizing me, listening to me talk, wanting pictures.

“So much has already been done that I never thought I was gonna do in the first place, so like I said, I’m happy with what I’ve done already.”

There is a genuineness to Wellmaker that resonates with you when you speak with him, the same way you could feel his unbridled joy as he bounced to the Octagon in his home state earlier this summer.

“It’s a very exciting fight, and I respect him too. I looked at him as a fellow prospect in the division, so I’m excited for the challenge and excited for what he’s gonna bring. He’s a very talented guy, so it’s gonna be a fun fight.”

The 27-year-old from Perth was actually the first member of last year’s outstanding collection of additions to the UFC roster to debut inside the Octagon, earning a unanimous decision win over Dan Argueta just five weeks after earning his contract, before the season had even run its course.

Since then, Haddon has been stuck on the sidelines, working his way back from multiple injuries, but his overall success and the expansiveness of his toolkit make him a sound challenge for Wellmaker, and perhaps the first person in the UFC to push “Walla” beyond the opening round.

And as much as he enjoys knocking people out, there is a part of the electric finisher that would welcome that opportunity.

“At my core, I really believe I’m a fighter,” stated Wellmaker. “I love getting knockouts, I love winning, but when you see me in my training camps, when you see me doing my conditioning practices, I’m digging super-deep, I’m yelling crazy s***; I’m that psycho and I go into fights with this mentality of do or die, burn the boats, and when it gets ugly, I’m gonna keep fighting.

“I look forward to when the day comes that a guy eats my best shot and I know ‘We’re in for a long night, and this guy in front of me thinks it’s his fight, but it’s still my fight.’

But just maybe not this weekend.

Saturday night, a kid from Augusta that had never previously been to New York City is set to take part in one of the biggest UFC events of the year, and while he’s not the main attraction, his presence on the card and the fact that he and Haddon are positioned as the first fight of the televised prelims do not go unnoticed.

In two fights, Wellmaker has made an impact — in his community and inside the cage — and while admitting that he was sure to be star-struck when surrounded by the legendary champions he’ll be rubbing shoulders with all week, what really leaves him speechless is how quickly his life has changed.

“It’s really mind-blowing still because just in April I was still working my regular f***ing job!” he said, chasing his words with a deep laugh. “That was April, bro! Seven months ago! It makes no f***ing sense, man.”

Listen to him speak, watch him compete, and you’ll see why it makes perfect sense.