Tenth-ranked middleweight contender Marvin Vettori arrives in New Orleans for UFC 318 looking to snap a two-fight skid, but victory will mean much more than simply a return to form for the 31-year-old.

Vettori takes on rival Brendan Allen, and said he’s happy to be facing Allen, who is ranked just one spot behind him in the official UFC middleweight rankings.

“I’m looking forward to feeling what (strength) he's got, but yeah, I’m definitely very confident.”

Vettori is fighting with a heavy heart after his brother Patrick tragically died in a house fire in April. He was just 30. As he struggled to process his grief, training and fighting became much more than a vocation for Vettori. It became a way to move on.

“The same reason it's hard is the same reason why I do it. Because I need to keep going,” he explained.

“I know (Patrick) would have wanted me to do this, too. I think I was always an example of resilience for him, always trying to push past struggles and difficulties in life, and that's what I have to keep doing. Obviously, a lot of my perspective shifted, but in this time of my life, this is what I'm doing, and I'm gonna keep doing it, and that's it. I need to do it for him, too, so I keep going.

“A lot of people also look at me as an example, and look at me the way he was looking at me – other people in my family, people very close, people around me. So I need to keep going for them, too.”

That change in mindset has also eliminated any pressure he may have felt in the past. Having experienced something so devastating – the loss of a sibling – his perspective on his fighting career has changed considerably.

“There's no pressure anymore, man,” he said.

Despite having competed in the UFC middleweight division since 2016, Vettori has a remarkable record of never being finished. It’s something that he admits he was a little too proud of, and may have affected some of his past performances.

“I wasn't thinking about it. And then the last few fights kind of got to me,” he admitted.

It all means that Vettori is ready to go all-out to defeat “All In” on Saturday night, and he’s determined to step into the cage and go full throttle in search of his first UFC knockout victory.

“I want to knock him out,” he said.

“I’m giving everything to knock him out. I'm going in (like) the old Vettori. The old, but improved, Vettori.”