As we continue our Canadian-focused march through the history books as we head towards the promotion’s return to Montreal next month, we’ve already covered the top fights to take place in both the host city and the country as a whole.

Now it’s time to dive into the moments that have transpired here in the Great White North.

Having touched on a lot of the biggest fights, this list will feature a few of those familiar battles, but also include fun things that happened inside the Octagon, gnarly finishes, and cool instances that have continued to stand out over time.

It’s a little something different that affords me the opportunity to shout out some memorable moments that have transpired up here. I hope you enjoy.

Honestly, this is probably the most important single moment in Canadian MMA history.

That wasn’t the case here.

As the main event of the first card in Vancouver, this was an incredibly memorable way to close out the show, with one tenured veteran shutting down another, marking the end of Liddell’s UFC career.

This whole event was incredible; I’ve written about it here a couple times in the past.

It’s impossible to explain what it looked like walking into what is officially Rogers Centre early in the day as everything was still being set up, then watching more than 55,000 people file in later in the day before the action kicked off. It was one of those moments that was going to be a big deal regardless of how things played out inside the Octagon, but, as is often the case, the athletes rose to the moment and brought the goods for the UFC’s first appearance in Toronto.

I’ve been to a lot of great events and been lucky enough to witness some incredible fights, but in 15 years of covering this sport, nothing has topped this, and I doubt anything ever will.

Normally when we’re going through a list like this, I recommend that people go back and watch the fights that are discussed, either as a refresher or first-time experience.

Doing so here is not for the faint of heart.

This was an outstanding finish, but one that still makes me flinch when I see it, even though I know what’s coming.

A seven-second knockout win in your long-awaited promotional debut is the kind of moment that has to be celebrated here.

Even though history is riddled with instances where a preemptive dismissal of a fight has proven disastrous, people still brushed this one off as non-competitive and nothing more than another successful Jones title defense long before they’d even hit the Octagon.

What we got instead was an instant classic — a five-round battle between the two best light heavyweight on the planet at the time.

Gustafsson pushed Jones harder and further than anyone had to that point and has since, frankly, genuinely hurting him on multiple occasions and forcing “Bones” to dip into his rich talent stores to find a way to win. It was one of those fights where the momentum shifted multiple times, even within rounds, and left everyone watching gobsmacked.

It was rightfully inducted into the UFC Hall of Fame Fight Wing in 2020, and remains the gold standard for championship fights in the light heavyweight division.

While I was trying not to have too many repeat moments on this list, it was impossible not to include this Hall of Fame fight here.

And this fight was a big reason why.

Swanson and Choi teamed up to deliver another instant classic in the Ontario capital, one that would eventually join Jones and Gustafsson in the Hall of Fame. For 15 minutes, they fired heaters at one another, connecting frequently in both directions, leaving the crowd unable to catch its breath.

The roar these two received when the final horn sounded and they both exhaled was deafening, and while Swanson was the one to get his hand raised, there were no losers in this one.

Connelly was a staple of the West Coast MMA scene by the time the UFC made its way back to Vancouver in the fall of 2019, having amassed a 13-6 record competing on an alphabet soup of shows around the province.

Not bad for a night’s work on five days’ notice.

At her post-fight media availability, Nina smiled at me and told me not to take her deception personally — “She lied to everyone” she said, laughing — as “The Lioness” basked in the glow of her win and reflected on her incredible career. As the night was wrapping up, I got to share a moment with Nunes in the bowels of Rogers Arena, laughing with her as I gave her grief for her deception and thanking her for all the great fights and incredible conversations we’d shared over the years.

It remains one of my favorite moments of my career, though I have a feeling it will be usurped later this year when Nunes goes into the UFC Hall of Fame and we get to chat once more.