They say you learn more from your losses than defeats in sport, and if that adage holds true, Khalil Rountree Jr. is much more knowledgeable as a result of his last Octagon outing.

"Coming away from that fight, I gained a lot of experience," said Rountree.

"And then I was very happy throughout the whole fight, even in the toughest times. I remember just being really grateful to be there and soaking it all in. And so, although I didn't get the result that I was aiming for, I definitely walked away with a really cool experience. And now I know what it's like to fight the best of the best for a championship. So it was an eye opener, and it only motivated me to just want to keep climbing and do better."

"Moving forward, I think I'll be a lot better," he explained.

"I was as ready as I could be for that fight. But after, I realized, OK, there's still a lot of room to grow, and I'm not done growing. I haven't reached my peak yet. And that was motivating.

"It was motivating to know that, OK, there's still work to do. And I think with that, having more work to do is just gonna make me better. And I'm focused on being the best that I can be, correct mistakes and just be an overall well-rounded mixed martial artist. People know me as a striker, but I'd like to kind of even out that description and start to round out all of my skills and be complete by the end of this."

"This place is beautiful. The people have been very welcoming, very excited to have UFC here for the first time. I've seen many things from Old Town, Nizami Street, so I've been all around. Very excited to be here. It's unbelievable.

"I was really surprised at the fan reaction – they are the most fired-up fans I've ever seen. So to be able to headline in a place like this, every day I'm just excited. It's a really cool thing."

As for the fight itself, it's a bout that offers Rountree the chance to cement his status as one of the top contenders at 205 pounds as he prepares to face another fighter who previously held championship gold.