
Rountree challenged then-champion Alex Pereira for the undisputed light heavyweight title at UFC 307. Pereira was at the height of his dominance at the top of the division, and few gave Rountree a chance.

But the Las Vegas native backed himself, bit down on his mouthpiece and engaged in a thrilling title fight scrap with “Poatan” that earned him much more than $50,000 Fight of the Night bonus he received at the end of the night. It also earned him respect, and gave him the knowledge that he has what it takes to hang with the very best in the world at 205 pounds.

Rountree's early UFC career was plagued with inconsistency as he struggled to string a consistent run of results together. But since the pandemic, he hit top form as he strung together five successive wins – four by knockout – to put himself in the light heavyweight top 10 and earn him a shot at Pereira.

The fight ended in a fourth-round stoppage defeat, but Rountree explained that getting to that level and trading leather with Pereira proved to him that not only can he compete with the best in the world, he also still has more improving to do in order to bridge the gap from contender status to champion.

That work is already underway. Rountree has enlisted the help of 15-time Brazilian jiu-jitsu world champion Marcus Buchecha to tighten up his ground game, while former Muay Thai world champion and renowned striking coach Christian Knowles has joined the team to sharpen his striking arsenal.

But the man who pulls everything together is Rountree's head coach at Syndicate MMA in Las Vegas, John Wood. He's been a constant presence in Rountree's inner circle, and remains a pivotal, influential figure in his career.

"I've been with John for over 10 years now, and I’m super grateful for him," he explained.

"He encouraged me to get back into MMA very early on in my career, when I was kind of distracted and wanting to work and make money the safe way. And he's like, 'No man, you have a future in this. Just stick with me and we can get the job done.'

"And he's held true. He's always there for me, every fight. He's an amazing coach. He runs a great gym, a lot of experience, a lot of knowledge and the friendship there is unbreakable. So it's nice to have him on this journey with me. I can't wait to finally become a champion and see John right next to me, you know? Because he's one of those guys that's been there since the start."

Rountree returns to action against former champion Jamahal Hill this weekend as the pair do battle in the main event in Baku. It's the first UFC event held in Azerbaijan, and Rountree is relishing the opportunity to travel and enjoy the experience of competing in a new country.

"First and foremost, Baku is amazing," he said.

"I think a win over Jamahal would definitely place me in the talks of being a legitimate title contender," he stated.

"He's a former champion. He's beat some good guys and, yeah, that's, that's just kind of my focus.

"After the Alex fight, I want to continue to fight contenders, and whoever it is that's going to help me get back to the belt. And so, yeah, I think a win over Jamahal on Saturday would put me in the right place.

"I don't necessarily look past Jamahal – he's done some good things, and the both of us have pretty exciting styles, so I see it being a really cool matchup, definitely something that the fans are going to appreciate.

"But I have high belief in myself, and I know the work that I've put in to be prepared for an opponent like Jamahal. So I think that I've got everything it takes to win this fight in in a way that makes it undeniable for me to be close to fighting for that title again."