
“Part of it was that, and another part of it was I just wasn’t having fun. (Walking away) gave me some time to step back, reflect, unwind, and just remember why I started this thing in the first place, why I love it so much. It’s given me an interesting perspective, and I’m really, truly trying to be more grateful, trying to not take things for granted; enjoy these moments, live in these moments, and be a part of them.

Time away gave him time to not only examine how he felt about the sport but also reflect on the way he looked at himself within it and how he spoke to himself throughout his career. While countless athletes will tell you about the “haters” and online agitators that spend their days trying to get under people’s skin, uttering some of the nastiest and most abhorrent things imaginable while tucked behind a keyboard, few will ever open up about the things they say to themselves and the impact that self-talk can have on one’s mental state and outlook.

“We gotta be kinder to ourselves,” continued the proud husband and father, speaking a universal truth that everyone needs to take to heart. “Yeah, things haven’t been seamless, and I haven’t gone on huge undefeated streaks, marched through and fought for titles, but I’ve been close though, and I’ve made some noise, fought some good fights, had some triumphant moments and trying moments as well. And all of that has accumulated to who I am today, and I’m grateful for the things I have.

“I’ve built so much, have so much — fighting’s been good to me,” he added. “And I love it, still! I love it so much!”

“When I had my moments, I made them count, and I’m expecting much the same on Saturday,” he added with an excited smile. “I’ma try and rip these things!”

While he admitted that in the past, the distinction is something he would have scoffed at and been dismissive of — “Whatever!” — this more grateful version of “Danger” is definitely appreciative of the opportunity.

“I’m gonna go out there and rip ’em around, try my best. I’ve come up short in the past, I’ve fallen short of my own expectations, but I’m just trying to learn to give myself a little more grace, be a little more kind, and we’ll see how things work out. I expect Saturday, this fight is gonna get interesting. We’re both gonna hurt, we’re both gonna be in deep, dark places, and let’s find out who wants it.”

“Go out there, do my best, get my hand raised at the end of the night — it’s everything we’ve worked for,” added the veteran. “I don’t think anybody deserves anything in this world and in this sport, certainly not — fighting is so great because it’s so pure — but in a world ever more void of men who are, I believe I am worthy, so let’s go!”