Even 15-time world champions can get overwhelmed.

“For sure, the UFC is something different — the pressure is unreal because it’s a dream coming true. I was living the dream, but when I got in the fight, I was a little bit off because of all that.”

“I was too worried about what people were gonna say if I (won), if I (lost),” Buchecha said. “I never cared about these things when it came to (my other) fights, but for the UFC, I was paying too much attention for this kind of thing. At the end of the day, it’s a lot of noise, and I don’t need to hear all this noise. Of course, I wanna do my best, wanna deliver what I train for, but at the end of the day, I can’t let other people’s opinion get in my head.

“I remember telling you, ‘I wanna carry the jiu jitsu flag. I wanna get the submission, first round,’” he added, recalling our conversation prior to that first fight. “In my head, it was too much like this; ‘I need to get the submission. I need to prove! I need to prove!’

“At the end of the day, I don’t need to prove; I need to go there and do my best.”

“I did a lot of changes in my camp, my head has changed a lot, and I think all the changes I did were really great for me as an athlete, as a person,” began the BJJ legend. “This camp, I really enjoyed the camp. People were asking me, ‘How many weeks out?’ and to be honest, I didn’t know; I’m not counting. I was just enjoying, having a good time; people were counting the weeks for me.

“The other fight, every time I was going to sparring, I was praying not to get hurt,” continued Buchecha. “This time, I wasn’t thinking about getting hurt. I didn’t get hurt, didn’t have any injury — everything flowed better, and that was the difference for this camp. This one, I really enjoyed, really felt the improvement of me as an athlete, as an MMA fighter.”

“I put so much pressure on myself that I would submit him in the first round, and that was bad for me. Now, my head is where I’m ready to go there to fight for 15 minutes if I need. I’m ready to strike for 15 minutes against a striker for 15 minutes, but if I get the submission in the first round, second round, third round, I’ll take it; it’s a bonus.

“Now I feel like an MMA fighter,” he added with a smile. “Jiu jitsu is always going to be my biggest weapon, but the main thing is I’m not going to get into the Octagon in rush to get out of there.”

“That’s gonna be really good; that’s what I trained for,” he said with a smile when asked about ending the year with a win. “I’m gonna go there, do my best, and hopefully get a victory, pave the way for a good UFC journey.

“I have more time behind me (than I have in front of me) as an athlete, so I wanna enjoy my time.”