
Marcus Buchecha is one of the most decorated Brazilian jiu jitsu practitioners of all time; a member of the IBJJF Hall of Fame and widely considered to be not only the best of his generation, but one of the greatest to ever grace the mats, period. He competed in and won just about every major competition possible in the sport, including the Worlds in both the gi and no-gi, Pan-Ams, and the ADCC World Championships.

And yet, as he made the walk to the Octagon for the first time in July, the 35-year-old heavyweight felt himself dealing with unexpected nerves deriving from the expectations he had heaped upon himself and the belief that he needed to deliver a certain type of performance in his debut in order to properly represent Brazilian jiu jitsu on the biggest stage in mixed martial arts.

“I felt a lot of pressure,” admitted Buchecha, who dropped a unanimous decision to Martin Buday in Abu Dhabi and faces Kennedy Nzechukwu this weekend in his second foray to the Octagon. “I think that distracted me a little bit because I didn’t expect to feel the way I felt. It was hard to concentrate the way I expected.

There is something very real, very humanizing about hearing the Brazilian superstar speak about the weight of the expectations — both his own and those foisted upon him — he felt as he ventured in the fray for the first time in July and the conclusions he reached as he pulled apart what happened.

At some point or another, everyone has felt pressure of some kind, whether real or imagined, and been required to figure out how to contend with it. Some do it better than others, and despite his staggering list of accolades as a BJJ competitor, the UFC rookie wasn’t able to square things away for himself prior to his first appearance.

Lesson learned, Buchecha is ready to showcase the changes he’s made since that initial appearance when he steps in with Nzechukwu on Saturday’s main card.

Where many of his fellow BJJ ex-pats have spoken at length about the struggles of adopting their approaches and skills to MMA, Buchecha acknowledged that he needed to completely alter the way he viewed himself and the situation in front of him.

“It’s not jiu jitsu, it’s MMA, and I’m fighting in the biggest event in the world, and I’m not just fighting against anyone; I’m fighting one of the best fighters in the world,” he said. “When the submission didn’t come in the first round, I felt that.

Having come up short in his debut and been forced to make considerable changes to both his mindset and his approach in the gym, Buchecha is relishing this opportunity to compete for a second time before the end of the UFC’s 2025 campaign and heads into the weekend with designs on setting the foundation for a successful run in the promotion on Saturday.

“I’m just focused on Kennedy — I cannot think ahead of that — but one thing I can say is I want 2026 to be really active,” he added, looking ahead to next year and beyond. “If I’m able to do three, four fights, that’s my goal.