
Natalia Silva vs Rose Namajunas

The battle for top position on the list of contenders in the flyweight division continues on the UFC’s debut event of 2026 as streaking Brazilian Natalia Silva faces off with former strawweight queen Rose Namajunas.

Set to turn 29 at the start of next month, Silva touches down in Las Vegas with a perfect 7-0 mark inside the Octagon and riding a 13-fight winning streak overall. She raised her hand to replace Alexa Grasso here when the former champion was forced to withdraw and will look to add to her impressive run and case for a championship opportunity by starting her year with another big win.

Namajunas makes her sixth start in the 125-pound ranks, aiming to build off a unanimous decision win over Miranda Maverick in June. The two-time titleholder controlled that bout from start to finish, turning in a sharp rebound effort following her loss to Erin Blanchfield towards the end of 2024, pushing her record to 3-1 over her last four appearances.

Champion Valentina Shevchenko successfully defended her title at UFC 322 in New York City, with Blanchfield making her case for contention earlier in the night by submitting Tracy Cortez. Silva has been the clubhouse leader since besting Grasso at UFC 315 in Montreal back in May and can further cement her standing with an eighth straight UFC win, while a victory for Namajunas would shake up the hierarchy in the highly competitive flyweight division.

Kayla Harrison vs Amanda Nunes

There is so much that goes into this one that we’re going to have to dedicate a full long-form piece to it in the build-up to this event, but suffice to say that this bantamweight championship bout between reigning champ Kayla Harrison and returning Hall of Famer Amanda Nunes is an absolutely epic affair.

Harrison completed her ascent to the top of the 135-pound weight class with a second-round submission win over Julianna Pena at UFC 316 in Newark. It was a dominant showing by the two-time Olympic gold medalist, who advanced to 3-0 in the Octagon and 19-1 overall with her 14th career stoppage win.

Nunes, who was inducted into the UFC Hall of Fame last summer, hung up her gloves following a dominant win over Irene Aldana at UFC 289 in June 2023, exiting as a two-division champion and the consensus greatest female fighter of all time. When she departed, “The Lioness” had beaten every woman to hold the bantamweight and featherweight titles, and now she returns looking to reclaim her throne and make that fact true once more by taking out Harrison.

In addition to being a colossal pairing that everyone was clamoring for prior to Nunes’ departure and Harrison’s arrival in the UFC — and since as well — there is some personal tension here, too. The co-main event combatants both trained at American Top Team, and ever-present talk of a potential fight between the two was a big part of the reason Nunes decided to pull up stakes, establish her own space, and take a more boxing-style approach to her preparations.