
Former strawweight title challengers Tatiana Suarez and Amanda Lemos meet in a bout with serious divisional ramifications in San Antonio.

Suarez returns to action for the first time since landing on the wrong side of a one-sided fight in her championship clash with Zhang Weili earlier this year. It was the first professional setback for the former Ultimate Fighter winner, and it will be interesting to see if there is any first loss hangover for her in this one.

Lemos was dominated by the two-time, reigning champion two summers back, and has alternated results across three fights since, beating Mackenzie Dern and Iasmin Lucindo on either side of a submission loss to Virna Jandiroba.

Will Suarez have a return to form and the win column or will Lemos pick up a second straight win and keep herself in the title picture heading into the fall?

The third member of the Fighting Nerds posse to compete this month, Silva has been a captivating marauder since earning his place on the roster during Season 7 of Dana White’s Contender Series. After earning three wins in his 2024 rookie campaign, “Lord” has already posted consecutive stoppage wins this year to advance to 5-0 in the UFC and 16-2 overall, most recently submitting Bryce Mitchell at UFC 314.

It’s a battle of ascending strawweights in Perth as Loma Lookboonmee and Alexia Thainara share the Octagon in an under the radar preliminary card battle.

Lookboonmee has quietly and steadily built a solid record over the course of her nearly six-year UFC tenure, going 7-2 and arriving in Australia on a four-fight winning streak. She’s only lost to rankings mainstays Angela Hill and Loopy Godinez, and has continued to show small, but meaningful, improvements each time out.

The 27-year-old Thainara is yet another member of the DWCS Class of ’24 that has impressed straight out of the gates after earning a first-round submission win over Molly McCann in her promotional debut back in March. Training with Amanda Ribas, “Burguesinha” has won 10 straight, with her lone setback coming against current UFC fighter Bruna Brasil in just her third professional appearance.