Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Chartier: I like that you mentioned levels because especially against a guy that is going to come forward and try to shoot on you, I think working the body is going to be key; catch him on the way in. If you hit the body and he shoots, you’re gonna hit the head, but if you’re aiming for the head, he’s gonna shoot underneath it and be on your legs. I think that’s gonna be crucial for this fight.

He works the body really well, and the stance switching can confuse a wrestler, because now he’s got to figure which side to shoot on; you’re working the whole camp shooting on both stances.

Chartier: I think it starts with what we talked about already — low and long. You’re fighting a wrestler, so you’ve gotta fight low and long, but then I think it’s gonna be the decision-making.

Obviously the path is “keep it on the feet, use your hands, do damage; don’t get taken down.” Keep it on the feet and beat him up. Vary the targets, work the body, play at range, keep it low and long, take the center of the cage, and don’t let him push you back to the fence.

Chartier: Touch, touch, touch.

Get on offense, stay low and long, get some touches to the body, and then react to what happens.

Kyte: Okay — what, if anything, is the X-factor in this fight?

Kyte: He lets himself get into s***** positions!

Chartier: Yeah! You’re 90 percent away, and then you try to go for a whizzer kick instead of just pummeling out, and you get taken down again.

He engages in the grappling in fights where he doesn’t want to grapple. Just don’t engage. Don’t entertain it.

Kyte: In terms of a curiosity point, what’s the thing you’re looking to see or the question you want answered?

Chartier: I wanna see if Della Maddalena’s takedown defense looks better.

But he’s always been a good grappler in that he’s got good submissions, good ability to get back to his feet, he’s not easy to hold down, but the wrestling has been below average. He’s got UFC newcomers taking him down on their first shot.

For me, I’m going to our tried and true — and I will preface by saying that I don’t necessarily think it’s going to be a factor — but it’s your first main event, it’s a title fight; it’s the first time the pressure and the spotlight are truly on you.

A lot of people think that can’t be and we’re over-estimating that stuff, but we watched this dude fight for the last three years, where he came out guns blazing trying to kill you in the first 90 seconds, and he didn’t, at all.

Some of that might be making decisions, but…

Chartier: You’re worrying about your cardio, the guy that’s standing across from you in really good…

Kyte: And he was getting into it with Yair (Rodriguez) during the week, bickering, which is all just — there’s no press conference when you’re not fighting on pay-per-view and in a critical fight.

It felt like all the extra things added up to being too much in those early moments. So there is just a lot to it, so we’ll see. Skill-wise, I think he’s a helluva talent — a legit Top 5 guy — but we’ll see.

Chartier: Yep. It should be fun.