
Sam Hughes kicked things off with a second-round submission win over Shauna Bannon before Rinat Fakhretdinov, Robert Bryczek, Sam Patterson, and Kaue Fernandes all chalked up technical knockout victories, with all but Bryczek handling their business in the opening round. That was followed by heavyweight newcomer Ante Delija collecting a first-round knockout win over Top 10 staple Marcin Tybura prior to hometown favorite Oumar Sy wrapping things up with a first-round stoppage win of his own.

From the outset, the Brazilian targeted the legs, happy to hammer each calf as Hardwick switched stances and tried to deal with the punishment coming his way. Just after the midway point of the opening round, Fernandes cut Hardwick down and walked away, giving him the opportunity to get back to his feet, but when the Cage Warriors standout could not, referee Herb Dean waved off the contest.

This was a master class in low kicks and how to deal with a short-notice replacement opponent by Fernandes, who pushed his winning streak to three with the punishing win. Just a brilliant effort from the Nova Uniao man!

That’s now four straight first-round finishes since relocating to welterweight for the 29-year-old Patterson, who advanced to 14-2-1 with the victory. His size and the diversity of his skills have made him a dark horse in the 170-pound weight class, and another step up in competition should be in the offing after this one.

The Polish UFC sophomore battered Tavares in the opening round, stinging the Ultimate Fighter alum multiple times and leaving him leaking heading into the corner. While the veteran did well to work back into the fight in the second, using his movement and kicks to keep Bryczek at bay, one heavy shot early in the third had Tavares covering up again, allowing Bryczek to swarm and hammer out the finish.

This was a very good victory for the 35-year-old, who dropped a decision to Ihor Potieria in his debut, but looked much more comfortable and dangerous here. After more than 18 months on the sidelines, this was a tremendous return to action for Bryczek.

Gustafsson charged forward as expected, but “Gladiator” met him in the middle and countered with heavy, effective shots, backing the Swede up with a left hand early. Recognizing his opponent was hurt, Fakhretdinov pounced, upping the output and collecting the stoppage under a hail of unanswered blows as Gustafsson covered up along the fence.