Saturday night will see one of the greats of the sport call time on their career as former two-division champion Henry Cejudo makes the walk for the final time at UFC 323.

“I think the biggest thing is probably just gratitude, man,” he explained.

This will be the second time Cejudo has retired from the UFC, with the former two-weight champ calling time on his career after defending the bantamweight title against former champ Dominick Cruz at UFC 249.

That retirement lasted less than a year before he eventually returned to the Octagon, but that short time away was transformative for Cejudo, who started a family and discovered new motivation for his life and career as a result.

Family will play a huge part in Cejudo’s next chapter, but he also plans to stay close to the sport by giving back and being there for fellow pros who need help.

“One of the things that I do want to do is I do want to help out other legends, and particularly legends,” he explained.

Cejudo has already carved a successful career for himself away from fighting in the world of real estate, and said he’d love to help other retiring big-name fighters to maximize their star power in that sphere.

But before he can devote more of his time to help fellow veteran fighters, Cejudo plans on slowing the momentum of a rising young prospect. Talbott has been tipped for big things in the UFC’s bantamweight division. He’s 10-1, and he’s coming off an impressive win over Felipe Lima at UFC 317 last summer. But, crucially, Cejudo has him well scouted, having trained with him in the past.

“I know Payton. Payton’s come to my house and we’ve spent time together, but this is the game that I’m in. When I say, ‘anybody, anytime, anywhere,’ I mean it,” he said.

During his UFC career, Cejudo has competed under a number of fighting monikers. The wholesome Olympic champion Cejudo started his UFC career as “The Messenger” before transitioning to “The King of Cringe” as he leaned more into his personality.

Then came the nickname he loved the best, “Triple C”, as he rose to become a triple champion by adding the UFC flyweight and bantamweight titles to his Olympic gold medal.

“It’s ‘Triple C’, because it all goes back to ‘what did I want to manifest?’” he said.

And while you could forgive Cejudo a moment of emotion as he makes his final walk to the Octagon, the man himself is treating it as just another day at the office.

“As of right now, the way I'm thinking now, it's just another fight,” he admitted.

That business will be concluded on Saturday night when Cejudo competes inside the Octagon for the final time. And after losing a hat-trick of decisions in his last three fights, Cejudo plans on snapping that streak and going out on a high with one more top-tier performance to see out his 22-fight MMA career.