
UFC Fight Night: Sandhagen vs. Figueiredo — Saturday, May 3 (Des Moines, IA)

While both Reinier de Ridder and Bo Nickal are currently ascending talents in the middleweight division, this is much more a “veteran versus prospect” clash that will serve as a litmus test for the latter, and it’s one that stands to be highly informative.

Holland’s de Ridder has earned finishes in each of his first two UFC outings, submitting both Gerald Meerschaert and Kevin Holland to establish a baseline for where he fits in the 185-pound weight class. The former ONE Championship two-division titleholder is 19-2 overall with 17 finishes and stands as dark horse contender in the wide-open weight class heading into his 2025 debut.

RELATED: Bo Nickal | Continuously Improving

Nickal has won all four of his UFC appearances to date, and each of his first seven fights to begin his career, most recently sweeping the scorecards last November in a bout against Paul Craig. The former three-time National Champion wrestler from Penn State has looked the part of an elite prospect from the jump, and now takes another step forward in hopes of proving he’s ready to be considered a contender.

One of the fascinating elements here is that de Ridder is outstanding on the ground, which is also where Nickal does his best work. It will be interesting to see if they challenge one another on the canvas or if this plays out on the feet, but either way, it should tell us a great deal about where each man stands in the division heading into the summer, and give us a good indication of what to expect from each going forward.

Cory Sandhagen vs. Deiveson Figueiredo

A Top 5 battle in the bantamweight division headlines the UFC first trip to Iowa in 25 years as Cory Sandhagen and Deiveson Figueiredo share the Octagon on Saturday night.

Throughout the last couple years, Sandhagen has maintained his standing as one of the best fighters in the 135-pound weight class, earning decisive wins over Song Yadong, Marlon Vera, and Rob Font while giving TJ Dillashaw, Petr Yan, and Umar Nurmagomedov tough fights in losing efforts. The Colorado native currently finds himself on the fringes of the title conversation, but can put himself right back into the thick of things with a statement effort this weekend in Des Moines.

RELATED: Cory Sandhagen Finds Balance In Nature

After a three-year stint at or near the top of the flyweight division, Figueiredo made the successful move up in weight in 2023 with a win over Font, following it up with victorious efforts against Cody Garbrandt and the aforementioned Vera last year. He too came up short against Yan, which has pushed him out of the title picture at the moment, however, he can also change that in a hurry with a dominant showing on Saturday.

Will Sandhagen prove he’s on a different level than the former two-time titleholder or can Figueiredo get back into the win column by turning back one of the division’s most respected contenders?

UFC 315: Muhammad vs. Della Maddalena — Saturday, May 10 (Montreal, QC)

Now in her 13th year on the UFC roster, Andrade remains a fixture in the Top 15 in two divisions, entering this contest stationed at No. 7 in the flyweight rankings and No. 4 at strawweight. She landed on the wrong side of the cards in her most recent outing, but as a former champion and the female fighter with the most appearances in UFC history, you know that she will be dialed in and ready to deliver when she stomps out to the Octagon in Montreal later this month.

Order UFC 315: Muhammad vs Della Maddalena

While three years younger than her Canadian opponent, Andrade has been fighting for significantly longer and been through some battles, and it’ll be interesting to gauge whether she’s still capable of being the veteran roadblock midway up the rankings. For Jasudavicius, this is her chance to take a big step forward in the ultra-competitive 125-pound ranks on the same night the title is up for grabs and before two more of the hopefuls ahead of her in the rankings battle it out later in the month. 
Benoit Saint Denis vs. Joel Alvarez

If you need to replenish your snacks or make a trip to the bathroom during the UFC 315 main card, make sure you’re back in your seat before this one kicks off because there is absolutely no way on Taylor Swift’s Earth that this isn’t going to be violent and exciting from start to its inevitable finish somewhere before the final horn sounds. 
Saint Denis entered last year on the cusp of title contention, having won five straight by stoppage and paired off with Dustin Poirier at UFC 299. After falling to “The Diamond,” the former French military man landed on the wrong side of a finish in his return to Paris last fall against Renato Moicano, sending him into this one on the first two-fight skid of his career.

The 32-year-old Alvarez has 22 wins and 22 finishes, including seven in his last eight appearances inside the Octagon, with his only loss coming to divisional standout Arman Tsarukyan. Last time out, “El Fenomeno” knocked out divisional stalwart Drakkar Klose in the first round for the 17th first-round stoppage win of his career.

Jose Aldo vs. Aiemann Zahabi

After welcoming several foes to his adopted hometown of Rio de Janeiro over the years, Jose Aldo fills the role of the “away team” in this clash with Montreal’s own Aiemann Zahabi.

Aldo ended a 21-month retirement last May with a unanimous decision win over Jonathan Martinez at home at UFC 301. He landed on the wrong side of a debated decision against Mario Bautista five months later at UFC 307 in Salt Lake City, and will look to avoid a second straight setback when he strides to the Octagon for his first appearance of 2025 later this month.

MORE DES MOINES: Preview Every Fight | Fighters On The Rise | De Ridder vs Nickal Preview | Jeremy Stephens Interview

Zahabi entered 2024 on a three-fight winning streak and forced his way into the rankings with additional victories over Javid Basharat and Pedro Munhoz. The 37-year-old is technically sharp and defensively responsible, and now gets the opportunity to share the cage with an absolute legend, at home, when he faces off with Aldo here. 
As much this is a cool story for Zahabi, an unsung veteran on a quality winning streak, fighting at home for the first time in his UFC career, it’s also a crucial matchup for both men. Aldo didn’t come back to be a veteran name that is frequently turned back and overtaken in the divisional chase, while the Tristar Gym product Zahabi knows that a win over the UFC Hall of Fame member still carries significant weight in 2025 and will create even bigger opportunities for him later in the year if he’s able to add to his run of success.

Belal Muhammad vs. Jack Della Maddalena

Belal Muhammad puts his welterweight title on the line for the first time in a clash with Jack Della Maddalena that headlines the UFC’s long-awaited return to Bell Centre later this month.

Last July, Muhammad rolled into Manchester and rag-dolled Leon Edwards to earn his sixth straight victory and ascend to the top of the welterweight division. Unbeaten in his last 11 bouts, Muhammad is the foremost example of a competitor that has learned to weaponize his conditioning and pace, using both, along with constantly improving hands, to overwhelm whomever has stood across from him over the last five years.

UFC Des Moines Free Fights: Figueiredo vs Garbrandt | Sandhagen vs Moraes

Originally scheduled to face Edwards in England towards the end of March, Della Maddalena instead makes his return to action in a championship pairing with Muhammad. Hailing from Perth, Australia, Della — like Fiorot — has been streaking since suffering a pair of early setbacks, entering the UFC 315 main event on a 17-fight winning streak that includes seven victories and five finishes inside the Octagon. 
Despite his championship win, Muhammad remains criminally underrated, but a win over the dangerous Dana White’s Contender Series grad and another dominant showing would go a long way to helping change that. As for the man Jon Anik calls “Three-Name Jack,” he has the opportunity to become the third Aussie and third DWCS alum to claim gold if he’s able to thwart Muhammad’s suffocating advances.

UFC Fight Night: Burns vs. Morales — Saturday, May 17 (Las Vegas, NV)

Gilbert Burns vs. Michael Morales

Originally penciled in as a main card bout at both UFC 314 and UFC 315, Gilbert Burns and Michael Morales get the five-round main event treatment this matchup deserves when the UFC returns home to Las Vegas midway through the month.

Now 38, Burns kicks off his 2025 campaign with designs on halting a three-fight slide. While those setbacks have come against the two men battling for the title in Montreal and presumptive No. 1 contender Sean Brady, there are questions to be asked and answered any time a veteran struggles to find positive results, and this is a chance for “Durinho” to answer those questions.

Unbeaten in 17 professional bouts, Morales is the next ultra-talented youngster making a push forward in the welterweight ranks. Still just 25 years old, the DWCS alum has gone 5-0 since matriculating to the Octagon, most recently starching Neil Magny last August in a bout that also took place at the UFC APEX.

Can Burns bounce back and hand the streaking rising star his first career loss or will Morales keep rolling and deliver a fourth straight defeat to the popular and respected Brazilian veteran?

Image caption: Bo Nickal punches Val Woodburn of Jamaica in a middleweight fight during the UFC 290 event at T-Mobile Arena on July 08, 2023 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)

Image caption: Deiveson Figueiredo of Brazil punches Brandon Moreno of Mexico in their UFC flyweight championship fight during the UFC 270 event at Honda Center on January 22, 2022 in Anaheim, California. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)

Image caption: Benoit Saint Denis of France reacts after defeating Thiago Moises of Brazil in a lightweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at The Accor Arena on September 02, 2023 in Paris, France. (Photo by Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC)

Image caption: Jose Aldo of Brazil punches Jonathan Martinez in a bantamweight bout during the UFC 301 event at Farmasi Arena on May 04, 2024 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. (Photo by Alexandre Loureiro/Zuffa LLC)

Image caption: Belal Muhammad reacts after his UFC welterweight championship bout against Leon Edwards of Jamaica during the UFC 304 event at Co-op Live on July 27, 2024 in Manchester, England. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)

Image caption: Michael Morales of Ecuador reacts after defeating Adam Fugitt in a welterweight fight during the UFC 277 event at American Airlines Center on July 30, 2022 in Dallas, Texas. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)