
Jessica Andrade vs. Jasmine Jasudavicius

Jessica Andrade and Jasmine Jasudavicius face off in a pivotal flyweight pairing on the UFC 315 prelims.

Someone is getting put away in this one. I don’t know how, I don’t know when, exactly, but it’s going to happen, and every single second between when the fight starts and when it ends is going to be riveting. I cannot wait for this one. 
Alexa Grasso vs. Natalia Silva

Former champ Alexa Grasso and Brazilian contender Natalia Silva face off in the second of three critical flyweight battles set to take place at Bell Centre later this month in Montreal.

UFC 315 marks Grasso‘s first appearance since dropping the title back to Valentina Shevchenko at UFC 306 last September, and her first bout against someone other than “Bullet” in more than two years. She was unbeaten in the division prior to her last two outings, and will look to re-affirm her standing as an elite contender in the division by getting back into the win column and halting the ascent of Silva in this one.

All Silva has done since arriving in the UFC is win. The 28-year-old has gone 6-0 to begin her tenure, bookending that run with wins over Jasudivicus and Andrade while climbing to No. 5 in the divisional ranks.

Can the former champ be the first to beat the streaking contender or will Silva hand Grasso a second straight defeat while stamping herself as a serious title threat?

Valentina Shevchenko vs. Manon Fiorot

Back on top of the flyweight division, Valentina Shevchenko makes the first title defense of her second reign against patient and dangerous French challenger Manon Fiorot. 
Shevchenko walked into her trilogy fight with Grasso last year at UFC 306 bent on ensuring the judges didn’t interfere with her plans to reclaim the title, and made good on that effort, dominating her fellow TUF 32 coach and reclaiming the strap. Now the 37-year-old looks to show she’s still got plenty more in the tank as she puts the belt on the line in what will be her 12th straight flyweight title fight appearance.

Fiorot lost the first fight of her professional career and hasn’t been beaten since, rattling off a dozen consecutive victories, including seven straight in the UFC. She secured her position as the No. 1 contender in the 125-pound weight class with a one-sided win over Erin Blanchfield last March in Atlantic City, and has been champing at the bit to get into the Octagon with Shevchenko ever since “Bullet” reclaimed the title in September.

Is this the start of another extended reign for the two-time champion or will Fiorot become the first French champion in UFC history in Montreal?

UFC Fight Night: Blanchfield vs. Barber — Saturday, May 31 (Las Vegas, NV)

Erin Blanchfield vs. Maycee Barber

A few weeks after all the flyweight action in Montreal, Erin Blanchfield and Maycee Barber will share the Octagon in a main event clash that carries both immediate and long-term ramifications for the 125-pound weight class.

After losing to Fiorot last March, Blanchfield got things moving in the right direction again with a steely unanimous decision win over Rose Namajunas in Edmonton in November. The 25-year-old is 13-2 as a pro with wins over Namajunas, Andrade, and former title challenger Taila Santos, and has been ticketed for title contention throughout her rise through the ranks.

Barber, who turns 27 two weeks ahead of this contest, fights for the first time since beating Katlyn Cerminara at UFC 299 to extend her winning streak to six. “The Future” has really found a groove by relying on her grit and tenacity since dropping back-to-back contests several years back, and will aim to keep rolling in her first UFC main event.

Not only will this bout determine where each of these women stand in the shifting flyweight landscape heading into the back half of the year, but it could also be a glimpse into what the top of the division may look like somewhere down the road if and when the likes of Shevchenko and Fiorot move on. For now, it’s an outstanding clash between two ultra-talented rising stars that are very much deserving of the main event spotlight.

Image caption: Jasmine Jasudavicius of Canada kicks Priscila Cachoeira of Brazil in a bantamweight bout during the UFC 297 event at Scotiabank Arena on January 20, 2024 in Toronto, Ontario. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)

Image caption: Natalia Silva of Brazil kicks Viviane Araujo of Brazil in a flyweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on February 03, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)

Image caption: Valentina Shevchenko of Kyrgyzstan reacts after defeating Jessica Andrade of Brazil in their UFC women's flyweight championship bout during the UFC 261 event at VyStar Veterans Memorial Arena on April 24, 2021 in Jacksonville, Florida. (Photo by Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC)

Image caption: Maycee Barber punches Katlyn Cerminara in a flyweight fight during the UFC 299 event at Kaseya Center on March 09, 2024 in Miami, Florida. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)