Saturday night’s UFC 312 pay-per-view at Qudos Bank Arena in Sydney left us with plenty to talk about, as reigning champs Dricus Du Plessis and Zhang Weili successfully defended their titles, while a host of locals did well to impress UFC CEO Dana White.

The South African middleweight champion earned his second consecutive successful title defense on Saturday, out-working former titleholder Sean Strickland in a rematch of their UFC 297 nail-biter where Du Plessis claimed the belt by landing on the happy side of a split decision verdict.

While their second meeting also went to the scorecards, the final decision was never in doubt. Du Plessis dominated the action, landing the more powerful and telling blows throughout the first three rounds before exploding Strickland’s nose with a right hand in the fourth and further distancing himself down the stretch. After claiming the title by the narrowest of margins, the 31-year-old champion has now turned in successive dominant title defenses, putting himself in an interesting position in the process.

Most, including Du Plessis himself, believe Khamzat Chimaev will be next, and while “Borz” is undefeated and back to being the boogeyman of the division after tearing through Robert Whittaker in October, his tiring effort against Kamaru Usman and the fact that consecutive pay-per-view events have ended with unbeaten challengers falling to reigning champions have many wondering if the unconventional Team CIT man has what it takes to continue that trend and hand Chimaev his first loss.

There are going to be some that forever doubt the middleweight champ, unable to see past his “throw whatever comes to mind, technique be damned” approach and his hailing from a team and region that has never previously produced a UFC titleholder. Those things didn’t cause fans and observers to question fighters like Francis Ngannou and Zhang Weili — more on her shortly — but those two undeniably looked the part, while for many, Du Plessis does not.

But with nine straight wins in the UFC and 11 consecutive victories overall, there comes a time where you have to stop wondering how Du Plessis continues to get it done, and just accept that unorthodox as his approach may be, “Stillknocks” is a menace to fight and the best middleweight in the UFC right now.

That is, unless Nassourdine Imavov has something to say about it.

Welcome to the club, Weili.

One of the things Dana White talked about at his post-event media availability was how impressed he was with the emerging crop of talent coming from Australia, and it’s an understandable position to take.

Quillan Salkilld kicked off the show with a 19-second knockout win over Anshul Jubli, and Jonathan Micallef followed it up by out-working Kevin Jousset over 15 minutes to claim victory in his promotional debut, as well. A little later in the prelims, Tom “Big Train” Nolan collected his third straight UFC victory, successfully navigating a matchup with the resilient and relentless Viacheslav Borshchev.

Jake Matthews, the elder statesmen of the night’s Australian contingent at 30 years old, opened the main card with a unanimous decision win over Francisco Prado as well, while Colby Thicknesse gave a solid account of himself in a losing effort on short notice opposite Aleksandre Topuria, and should get every opportunity to show what he can do on a full camp somewhere in the not too distant future.

Jack Della Maddalena is stationed at No. 4 in the welterweight rankings and is poised to face off with former champ Leon Edwards in the main event of the UFC’s annual trip to London next month. Fellow Perth man Steve Erceg challenged for the flyweight title last spring, pushing Alexandre Pantoja to the limit, and is set to take on ex-champ Brandon Moreno in the main event of the UFC’s return to Mexico City the week after Della Maddalena headlines at The O2.

A third Perth native, Cody Haddon, was scheduled to face Topuria on Saturday, but had to withdraw due to a foot injury. A teammate of Salkilld’s, he won his promotional debut last November against Dan Argueta, and is an intriguing name to watch in the bantamweightdivision.

Tallison Teixeira turned in a pretty memorable promotional debut, closing the distance before burying a knee to the body and an elbow to the face of Justin Tafa, the latter of which sent Australia’s “Bad Man” falling to the canvas, prompting the stoppage.

A member of the DWCS Class of ’24, Teixeira is still green, but he’s gigantic, has an 8-0 record and has yet to see the second round. There is no real way to forecast how his career is going to pan out in the future, but it’s definitely going to be fun to watch the 25-year-old Brazilian grow and develop over the next couple years.

Gabriel Santos went from looking like he was about to get finished to dominating his fight with Jack Jenkins, turning in an effort that opened a lot of eyes, including Daniel Cormier on the broadcast.

The Chute Boxe Diego Lima product went from getting dropped to controlling things, all in the first round, before neutralizing Jenkins in the second and submitting him in the third. He’s now 2-2 in the UFC, having won back-to-back outings, and a step up in competition is merited after his efforts over the weekend in Sydney.

Aleksandre Topuria picked up a win his UFC debut on Saturday night, out-hustling short-notice replacement Colby Thicknesse over three rounds. You can see the similarities between Aleksandre and his younger brother, featherweight ruler Ilia Topuria, and it will be interesting to see how he continues to progress now that they’re both competing on the biggest stage in the sport.

Rongzhu earned an impressive unanimous decision win over Kody Steele on Saturday, getting the better of things throughout the entertaining back-and-forth with the recent Contender Series grad.

The Chinese lightweight is another example of the “Development is Crucial” case I’ve been making in this space for the last couple months, as he’s still only 24 years old, but has clearly improved by leaps and bounds since his first stint on the roster. He’s hooked up with the team at City Kickboxing, and with his insane amount of experience, is the kind of plus athlete that might suddenly put it all together and go on run in the 155-pound ranks.

It’s easy to want to dismiss competitors that struggle out of the chute, but winning consistently at the UFC level is incredibly difficult, and doing so in your early 20s is even more challenging. He seems to have steadied himself and looked excellent on Saturday, so it’ll be interesting to see what he can do going forward.