
During the UFC 312 broadcast, Daniel Cormier opined that Zhang Weili has been the best female fighter in the sport for the last couple of years. Not only do I agree, but I’ll take it a step further: in handily beating Tatiana Suarez, the Chinese strawweight champion elevated herself into the pantheon of all-time greats.

Entering the contest as the underdog, Zhang dealt with Suarez successfully dragging her to the canvas early in the fight and patiently extracted herself from a potentially dangerous guillotine setup to close out the opening round in top position, controlling the challenger on the mat. From there, her confidence only grew with each passing round, each takedown attempt denied with greater ease, each striking exchange that resulted in Suarez eating a powerful shot.

This was a statement win and a lesson in the importance of experience, both against high level competition and in big moments, as Zhang’s extensive championship resume allowed her to keep things simple and measured, while Suarez was hurried and ultimately swept under by the moment… and the world-class talent standing across from her, smiling.

Zhang has now earned three consecutive successful title defenses since reclaiming the belt in November 2022, and six wins in championship bouts in her career, bringing her level with Joanna Jedrzejczyk for the most in the division’s history.

One of those wins came against “Joanna Champion” in their UFC 248 epic that is sure to land in the Fight Wing of the UFC Hall of Fame at some point in the future. She’s beat two of the three remaining women to hold the strawweight title to kick off each of her reigns, and while she’s 0-2 against Rose Namajunas, the totality of her time in the 115-pound ranks surpasses what Namajunas has been able to achieve.

Zhang is one of the most complete fighters in the sport today, regardless of gender, and her overall success to this point has to put her alongside the likes of Jedrzejczyk, Valentina Shevchenko, Ronda Rousey, Cris Cyborg and Amanda Nunes in the collection of all-time greats.

Regardless of where you think she fits in that sextet, it’s high time we acknowledge that Zhang has earned her place in such an exclusive group.

She didn’t just eke out a victory on Saturday night — she beat an undefeated challenger that was favored to get the win, that had never previously lost a round, let alone a fight, and she did it by beating her at her own game.

Welcome to the club, Weili.

One of the things Dana White talked about at his post-event media availability was how impressed he was with the emerging crop of talent coming from Australia, and it’s an understandable position to take.

Wang Cong rebounded from her upset loss to Gabriella Fernandes in November with a unanimous decision win over Bruna Brasil on Saturday’s televised prelims, moving to 7-1 for her career in the process.

“The Joker” has flashed power and finishing skills in the past, but is still relatively new to MMA and competing at this level, so she’s still working out the kinks. That being said, she has a ton of upside and should get ample opportunity to keep climbing the flyweight ranks after getting things moving in the right direction again.