
Murphy touches down for his second main event assignment in three fights riding a seven-fight winning streak, and eight-fight unbeaten streak in the UFC, while brandishing a 15-0-1 record overall. He’s made slow and steady progress up the rankings with victories over Edson Barboza and Dan Ige, and now gets the chance to square off with a former interim title challenger and Top 10 mainstay in a spotlight event to start the month.

Featherweight is in the midst of a massive realignment, which will be discussed throughout this piece, but the key here is that each of these men are angling to get themselves into the title conversation and avoid being swept up by the crush of new and emerging talent currently pushing forward. Emmett’s been close before and Murphy has been grinding away for five-plus years now, so if either is going to get into those discussions, it has to start here.

From a low-stakes fun time to a high stakes clash at strawweight, Yan Xiaonan and Virna Jandiroba clash in South Beach with the title of No. 1 contender in the 115-pound weight class likely hanging in the balance.

Yan challenged for the title last year at UFC 300, dropping a decision to compatriot and champion Zhang Weili in a fight that was significantly closer than the final scorecards indicated. She rebounded with a precise, professional win over Tabatha Ricci in November, and looks to pick up her fourth straight non-title win over a Top 15 opponent as she makes her first start of the year at UFC 314.

One could argue that Jandiroba has already done enough to merit a championship opportunity, having earned four straight wins, including a submission victory over former title challenger and Top 10 fixture Amanda Lemos last time out. She was slated to face off with Tatiana Suarez late last year before the former Ultimate Fighter winner was elevated into her championship clash with Zhang earlier this year, and will now look to take out Yan to further show she’s ready to fight for the belt.

Can Yan turn back another top talent and position herself to potentially vie for the title again or will Jandiroba make it five straight, leaving no doubt as to her standing within the divisional hierarchy?

After besting Emmett to claim the interim title in the early part of 2023, Rodriguez has dropped consecutive contests, getting stopped by Alexander Volkanovski in the headlining tilt at UFC 290 before getting tapped out by Brian Ortega last year in Mexico City. The 32-year-old remains a dynamic offensive talent, but he needs a win here to keep himself in the upper tier of competitors in the deepening featherweight division.

This is a perfect matchup on both sides, as it affords Rodriguez the opportunity to earn a statement victory if he’s able to spoil Pitbull’s debut, while the veteran newcomer waltzes right into a pairing with a Top 5 staple where a win instantly signals where he fits in his new surroundings. I cannot wait for this one.

Silva called out Mitchell following that effort at Climate Pledge Arena, in part because of some of the things he’s said in recent months, but also, I’m sure, because it’s a smart shout to target a guy with a number next to his name that you think you can beat. His wish was granted, the two men got heated with one another at the UFC 314 press conference a couple weeks back, and now we’re going to see who emerges victorious when the rubber hits the road in Miami.