Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Nicksick: Exactly. He’s looking for those inside trips and has a very efficient style of grappling.

Kyte: I’m really interested to see his body work here. We talk about it all the time as such an investment — “it’s money in the bank” — but he’s someone that it’s naturally a part of his game and always has been. He doesn’t need to change anything up and add it in here; he’s always ripping that lean over left hook into the midsection, constantly.

Nicksick: If I were them, I would be 60/40 or even 70/30 heavier on the body side of things. I would lead a lot of my combinations or have the body shot in the middle of the combination before going back upstairs to the head, but I’m leaning on that boxing and trying to hit that dude at least once or twice per combo down in the body, especially in a five-rounder.

Kyte: It’s insane, honestly.

Nicksick: I would say my biggest area of focus would be first-layer takedown defense, and what I mean by that is I think a lot of guys miss the frames, skip framing, and go directly to underhooks, and if you go immediately to underhooks, you’re gonna be chest-to-chest with Islam, and you miss a layer of defense.

So what I would say is that you have to win the entry phase before the underhook or mat phase, and you can do that in two ways: one is owning the geography and not putting your back to the barrier, but that first line out of the open stance will be key. The other thing I added in here too is “don’t wrestle back” and think about wrestling three seconds longer because this dude is gonna be on you.

Kyte: Always. When you think he’s done and you’re clear, stay at it because he’s coming one more time.

Nicksick: From an offensive standpoint, it’s volume boxing and front-foot pressure — he has to keep Islam reacting, not dictating. Maintain the jab, rip the body, and finish with low kicks to force resets.

Kyte: And what about the challenger?

Nicksick: So in my notes I wrote, “Walk JDM to the fence, clinch, body lock, inside trip, and eliminate striking space to try to grind him down.”

Nicksick: A hundred percent.

Kyte: Okay, so what’s the X-factor here?

Kyte: That’s my x-factor too, is just what does him changing divisions look like?

We often talk about it being better to go up than to go down — better to be adding, rather than taking away — but adding doesn’t necessarily always just mean you’re automatically going to be better. This is 15 pounds — but 15 pounds on the day you step on the scale — and probably more like 20 or 25 pounds on fight night and day-to-day.

You can mess yourself up going up, too.

Kyte: Right. I think the part about it being defensive is really key.

Everything is about shutting stuff down and minimizing rather than looking for sweeps, looking for stuff off your back, and that’s such an interesting interplay between the two. It’s almost an acceptance of “cool, I got taken down, but you’re not getting anything off,” and that’s going to increase the chance of whoever the ref is standing them up because Islam isn’t likely to be passing or landing a ton of shots.

Nicksick: Yep.

Kyte: It’s “I’m not gonna make any mistakes that give you more time here.”

Nicksick: 100 percent. How do you address the grips? That’s what Volk did so well in the first fight: addressing the grips, turning and facing, digging an underhook.

We always say, “You have to be able to control the redirect,” and the way I coach it is I tell the guys that on the offensive attack, you have to get the opponent’s belly button to go perpendicular. Until that belly button goes in a different direction, you have to maintain defensive responsibilities on the re-shot.

If you can move them or get the belly button to go in a different direction, you’re good. I think that is gonna be very relevant for JDM.

Kyte: Create space, get you off me.

Nicksick: If he’s not perpendicular, you’re missing a layer of defense.

Coach Follis used to always do this thing where he would walk up to you, stick his hand out, and shake your hand, and then ask you, “Why’d you shake my hand?” You’d say, “Because you stuck it out,” and he’d say, “It’s the same thing when guys go to over-under. Guys start from the over-under position because you’re so ingrained, trained to start from this position.”

Kyte: That’s how everyone practices pummeling and how we naturally lock up in those positions.

Nicksick: Absolutely, and Follis would say, “No, put a frame in front of him!”

Kyte: Right — don’t let him just have that position; stick a forearm in his face, in his throat,  and get him off of you!

Nicksick: Exactly!

Kyte: That’s too good.

I think this is a terrific fight, dude; I can’t wait. I’m so curious to see how things play out here.

Nicksick: Agreed. This is a big fight; it’s gonna be interesting.