
In any year other than last year, Jean Silva would have taken top spot in the year-end salute to UFC newcomers, but between his teammate Carlos Prates and two-time Olympic gold medalist Kayla Harrison, the explosive Fighting Nerds representative had to instead settle for bronze.

A member of the DWCS Class of ’23, Silva kicked off his rookie campaign in the Octagon with a first-round drubbing of Westin Wilson, rolling through the South Carolina native with little resistance on the opening card of the year. He followed that up with a statement-making stoppage win over Charles Jourdain at UFC 303, stopping the French-Canadian veteran in the second round; the only demerit being that he missed weight for the contest.

Two weeks later, Silva turned up in Denver, up a division, and earned a third-round stoppage win over Drew Dober that served as a real “put everyone on notice” moment, as he was the sharper and more effective of the two throughout, despite making the quick turnaround and fighting at altitude against the Denver-based veteran.

Now he makes his first appearance since that lights out performance in July, stepping in with Melsik Baghdasaryan in a battle of DWCS alums angling to continue their push towards the Top 15 in the featherweight division.

Like many of his Fighting Nerds teammates, Silva is a pressure fighter with keen finishing instincts, brandishing very good power for the division and the kind of ferocity — and quite frankly meanness — that can be a difference-maker when trying to forge ahead in a deep and talented group. He’s finished all but one of his 14 career wins and has only lost on the scorecards, which feels like a simple, but effective, encapsulation of what makes him dangerous.

While this pairing may have caught some people off guard given the tremendous success Silva had in 2024 and the bright spotlight currently shining down on his team as a whole, it feels like the kind of pairing designed to make sure the 28-year-old Brazilian doesn’t get too far ahead of himself just yet. Baghdasaryan isn’t someone you can look past, and Silva will need to be at his best in order to extend his overall winning streak to a dozen consecutive fights on Saturday.

If he does so — and especially if he does so in impressive fashion — a date with a Top 15 opponent could be on the horizon for the humble, mild-mannered Brazilian who turns into an absolute monster once the Octagon door closes.