
Seventh-ranked lightweight Mateusz Gamrot squares off with streaking Slovakian Ľudovit Klein in a fascinating pairing that occupies the co-main event slot this weekend

Now 10 fights into his UFC tenure, the 34-year-old Gamrot has established himself as one of the very best in the 155-pound weight class, holding victories over Diego Ferreira, Arman Tsarukyan, Jalin Turner, and Rafael Fiziev. Last time out, the former KSW double champ went shot-for-shot with Dan Hooker, landing on the wrong side of the scorecards in an ultra-competitive bout that earned Fight of the Night honors at UFC 305.

After his first three trips into the Octagon, Klein’s record stood at 1-2, with his debut win at UFC 253 carrying an asterisk as he missed weight for the short-notice featherweight contest. He then moved up to lightweight and has been white hot since, going unbeaten in his last seven while earning victories in each of his last four outings, including wins over Ignacio Bahamondes and Thiago Moises.

You have to tip your cap to Gamrot for taking such a dangerous fight against a surging, but unranked, talent like Klein. These two are both skilled in every facet of the game and equipped with outstanding gas tanks, so expect a high-octane battle from start to finish once the Octagon door closes behind them.

A shuffling of the deck results in DWCS graduate Billy Ray Goff and Ramiz Brahimaj landing opposite one another in this weekend’s lone welterweight pairing.

Goff punched his ticket to the UFC with a first-round stoppage win over Shimon Smotritsky on Season 6 of the annual talent search series, following it up with a similar effort in his promotional debut. Last time out, the 26-year-old from Groton, Connecticut dropped a Fight of the Night decision to fellow DWCS alum Trey Waters.

Dating back to his fifth fight on the regional circuit, Brahimaj has been consistently inconsistent, alternating wins and losses over his last 11 bouts. He returned from a two-year, injury-induced absence last May, losing to Themba Gorimbo, but earned an emotional first-round stoppage win over Mickey Gall at home in New York at UFC 309 in November.

Dustin Jacoby and Bruno Lopes square off in this main card matchup between light heavyweights at very different points in their UFC journeys.

Set to make his 17th appearance inside the Octagon, Jacoby enters off a third-round knockout win over Vitor Petrino in December that halted a two-fight skid. “The Hanyak” remains one of the top technical strikers in the 205-pound weight class, and a dangerous test for any hopeful trying to climb the divisional ladder at his expense.

After claiming a spot on the UFC roster last season on Dana Whtie’s Contender Series, Lopes garnered a unanimous decision win over fellow DWCS grad Magomed Gadhziyasulov in January to extend his overall winning streak to three. The former LFA light heavyweight champ has only been beaten once, and has collected a finish in 10 of his last 12 victories.

Zachary Reese and Dusko Todorovic clash here in a matchup of DWCS grads looking to right the ship as we head into the summer months.

After arriving in the UFC with a perfect 6-0 mark and six straight first-round finishes, Reese has gone 2-2 over his first four trips into the Octagon, bookending wins over Julian Marquez and Jose Daniel Medina with first-round knockout losses to Cody Brundage and Azamat Bekoev. The 31-year-old Texan is all-action, all the time, so expect him to come out of the gates quickly and look to get back to his finishing ways.

Todorovic similarly reached the UFC with an unblemished professional record, but has struggled to find success since ascending to the biggest stage in the sport. The 31-year-old Serbian has gone 3-5 over eight starts, and returns to Las Vegas looking to snap a two-fight skid.

There is a very strong likelihood that this one ends inside the distance, as Reese has only seen the scorecards once in 10 bouts and Todorovic has required the insights of the cageside officials twice in 17 career starts. Settle in and buckle up because chances are this one is going to be all gas, no brakes.

Brazilian flyweights collide as Jafel Filho faces off with compatriot Allan Nascimento.

Filho has earned consecutive first-round submission wins since dropping his promotional debut in a hard-fought bout with Muhammad Mokaev back at UFC 286. “Pastor” needed less than five minutes to tap Daniel Barez and Ode’ Osbourne, and recently got the better of top-ranked contender Amir Albazi in a grappling match, as well, further illustrating his skills on the ground.

A member of the Chute Boxe Diego Lima crew, Nascimento has been limited to just three appearances over the last three-and-a-half years, as injuries and illnesses on both sides have kept him out of action since the start of 2023. The 33-year-old is 20-6 overall and has won each of his last two UFC appearances, with many believing he did enough to merit the nod in his debut, split-decision loss to Tagir Ulanbekov, as well.

Andreas Gustafsson and Trevin Giles meet in a 180-pound catchweight bout on Saturday’s prelims.

The 34-year-old Gustafsson earned his place on the roster with a second-round mauling of Pat Pytlik last season on Dana White’s Contender Series, extending his record to 11-2 in the process. Giles steps in for Jeremiah Wells, hoping to halt a three-fight slide that has seen him land on the wrong side of the results in matchups with Mike Malott, Carlos Prates, and Gabriel Bonfim.

DWCS and TUF alum Kurt Holobaugh makes his second start of 2024 this weekend, welcoming Jordan Leavitt back to action for the first time since November 2023.

The 38-year-old Holobaugh has alternated results since advancing to the finals of the TUF 31 lightweight tournament, where he beat Austin Hubbard, most recently landing on the wrong side of the scorecards in a bout with Alexander Hernandez in mid-March. Leavitt returns for the first time since his submission loss to Chase Hooper towards the end of 2023, looking to get back to the form that produced stoppage wins over Matt Wiman, Matt Sayles, and Victor Martinez.

Lightweight contestants from Dana White’s Contender Series clash here as Bolaji Oki faces off with Michael Aswell in a short-notice pairing on Saturday’s prelims.

Oki collected a split decision win over Timmy Cuamba in his promotional debut last year, but fell into a guillotine choke and was put to sleep by Chris Duncan in his most recent outing. Aswell, who dropped a split decision to Bogdan Grad last season on the annual talent search series, is 10-2 overall and a former Fury FC featherweight champion.