
Main Event: Erin Blanchfield vs. Maycee Barber

Top 5 standouts Erin Blanchfield and Maycee Barber face off in this weekend’s highly anticipated main event.

Blanchfield enters sporting a 7-1 record in the UFC and 13-2 record overall, having rebounded from her loss to Manon Fiorot last March with a gutsy, rallying win over Rose Namajunas in November. The 26-year-old has wins over three ranked opponents, while also besting Miranda Maverick before she made her way into the Top 15, with her only setbacks coming against the recent French title challenger and streaking Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) grad Tracy Cortez by split decision in a bout many feel that the New Jersey native did enough to merit the victory in.

Barber returns to action for the first time in a little over a year, aiming to extend her current run of success to seven. She earned an emphatic second-round stoppage win over Amanda Rivas two fights back, and posted the biggest win of her career in her most recent effort, out-working Top 10 mainstay Katlyn Cerminara at UFC 299 last March.

There has been a ton of action in the flyweight division as of late, with champ Valentina Shevchenko recently defending her title in a battle with Fiorot, and Natalia Silva and Jasmine Jasudavicius continuing their good form with victories on the same card in Montreal. This is an opportunity for each of these talented women to score a marquee win and make their respective cases for title contention or, at the very least, maintain their spot in the pecking order heading into the back half of the year.

Ketlen Vieira and Macy Chiasson will finally share the Octagon this weekend in an oft-delayed matchup of bantamweight contenders.

Vieira competes for the first time since pushing impending title challenger Kayla Harrison to her limits at UFC 307 in October, while Chiasson makes the walk having earned consecutive stoppage wins over Pannie Kianzad and Mayra Bueno Silva in 2024. The duo has been scheduled to face off twice before, and do so here with a chance to cement their place in the Top 5 hanging in the balance.

The weekend’s action opens in the strawweight division, as Rayanne Dos Santos takes on Alice Ardelean.

Dos Santos, who lost to Denise Gomes on Dana White’s Contender Series in 2022 before winning the Invicta FC title, has been on the unhappy end of consecutive split decision verdicts to start her UFC career. After a game showing in her short-notice debut against Shauna Bannon at UFC 304, Ardelean dropped another decision, this time to Melissa Martinez, in her most recent outing to fall to 9-7 overall.