Leon “Rocky” Edwards not only gave us one of the most stunning moments in UFC history, but the former welterweight champion has shown absolute mixed martial arts excellence since joining the promotion. From his sharp striking to his ever-improving grappling, Edwards embodies the spirit of MMA.

Learn more about Edwards’ career highlights, UFC record and standout fights that led him to this point.

After extending his winning streak to eight fights following a decision win over Rafael Dos Anjos, Edwards saw his momentum evaporate for a variety of reasons. First his chance to headline a fight night in London opposite former champion Tyron Woodley was cancelled due to the COVID-19 pandemic. A series of health issues, his own and those of potential opponents, kept Edwards from competing until he fought Belal Muhammad in March 2021, but that fight ended in a no contest following in accidental eye poke. That all led to Edwards’ fight with fan-favorite Nate Diaz in Glendale, Arizona. In a five-round co-main event, Edwards dominated Diaz until a late rally from Diaz brought the crowd to its feet in the final minute. However, it was Edwards who got his hand raised, as well as the co-sign from Stockton’s own.

More than six years after their initial encounter in which Kamaru Usman handed Edwards his most recent defeat, Edwards got his second crack at “The Nigerian Nightmare,” this time with gold on the line. After a strong first round, Edwards started to succumb to the longtime champion’s pressure, pace and grappling. However, after some inspirational words from his coach Dave Lovell entering the fifth round, Edwards mustered up one of the greatest come-from-behind and title-winning finishes in UFC history. With less than a minute to go, Edwards uncorked a head kick that sent Usman crashing to the canvas and began a new world order at 170 pounds. Edwards’ post-fight speech, including him repeatedly saying “Look at me now!” as well a now-iconic catchphrase, remains a capstone to one of the wildest moments in the sport’s history.

To say a fight with Colby Covington has bad blood is a redundant sentence, but that only puts part of Edwards’ defense against “Chaos” into perspective. After Edwards bested Usman for a second time at UFC 286, Covington was the natural next man up, and Edwards needed to put him away in order to cleanly turn the page on an era of dominance between the two. After Covington made a below-the-belt comment at the press conference, Edwards waited until the two walked to the Octagon to make his foe pay, and proceeded to dominate Covington for 25 minutes.

UFC 304 (7/27/24) LOSS Edwards lost a five round unanimous decision to Belal Muhammad, losing his UFC welterweight title

UFC 296 (12/16/23) WIN Edwards won a five round unanimous decision over Colby Covington to retain his UFC welterweight title

UFC 286 (3/18/23) WIN Edwards won a five round majority decision over Kamaru Usman to retain his UFC welterweight title

UFC 278 (8/20/22) WIN Edwards knocked out Kamaru Usman at 4:04 of the fifth round to win the UFC welterweight title

UFC 263 (6/12/21) WIN Edwards won a five-round unanimous decision over Nate Diaz

UFC Fight Night (3/13/21) NO CONTEST Edwards’s bout with Belal Muhammad was ruled a no contest (accidental eye poke) at :18 of the second round

UFC on ESPN (7/20/19) WIN Edwards won a five round unanimous decision over Rafael Dos Anjos

UFC Fight Night (3/16/19) WIN Edwards won a three round split decision over Gunnar Nelson

UFC Fight Night (6/23/18) WIN Edwards won a five round unanimous decision over Donald Cerrone

UFC Fight Night (3/17/18) WIN Edwards stopped Peter Sobotta via strikes at 4:59 of the third round

UFC Fight Night (9/2/17) WIN Edwards won a three round unanimous decision over Bryan Barberena

UFC Fight Night (3/18/17) WIN Edwards won a three round unanimous decision over Vicente Luque

UFC 204 (10/8/16) WIN Edwards submitted Albert Tumenov via rear naked choke at 3:01 of the third round

UFC Fight Night (5/8/16) WIN Edwards won a three round unanimous decision over Dominic Waters

UFC on FOX (12/19/15) LOSS Edwards lost a three round unanimous decision to Kamaru Usman

UFC Fight Night (7/18/15) WIN Edwards won a three round unanimous decision over Pawel Pawlak

UFC Fight Night (4/11/15) WIN Edwards knocked out Seth Baczynski at :08 of the first round

UFC Fight Night (11/8/14) LOSS Edwards lost a three round split decision to Claudio Silva

What is Leon Edwards’ record?

What is Leon Edwards’ age?

What is Leon Edwards’ reach?

Where is Leon Edwards from?

What weight class is Leon Edwards in?

How many fights does Leon Edwards have in his career?