Patricio Pitbull’s arrival on the UFC roster came with great expectations, and two fights in, the Brazilian standout has yet to have the kind of performance he wanted from himself as he began trying to work his way forward in the featherweight ranks.

As a counter fighter who prefers to respond to his opponent’s offerings and approach, the assessment of how his first two bouts played out is understandable, though it does lay the responsibility for engaging solely at the feet of his foes, even when everyone understands that it takes two to tango.

“It was a different organization, it feels a little different, so there is a lot of adapting,” he continued, adding, “I’m looking to stay as active as possible now.”

This weekend’s business trip to Accor Arena in Paris presents the ranked featherweight with another marquee assignment and a situation that feels extremely familiar to him, as it was just five months ago that he was in Keita’s shoes.

The 27-year-old debutant was a two-division champion under the Oktagon MMA banner and one of the most sought after prospects competing outside of the sport’s biggest promotion. Born in Guinea and residing in Belgium, Keita has amassed a 16-1 record, with his lone setback coming as a result of an injury, and his run of five victories since that lone stumble have many eager to see how he looks in his debut against the seasoned, 11th-ranked Brazilian on Saturday.

Along with being another hyped new arrival to debut in the UFC this year, Keita is also someone that has historically fought on the front foot, bringing the fight to his opponents and looking to engage, which is another element of this fight that certainly piques Pitbull’s interest.

Beating Keita on Saturday won’t necessarily hustle the veteran to the top of the list of contenders, but it would likely move him forward, and Pitbull is hopeful that it sends a message to the champ and everyone else, as well.

“Maybe (they see) a guy who they’re saying is old can still beat up some young guys and get to the title,” he said with a smirk. “We’ll see.”