
“Georges St-Pierre said he was scared for his life before the fights, and he performed, so it’s completely normal.”

“That pressure got into me, but I accepted it for the first time, and I performed okay; it was fine,” he said with a chuckle. “I think I can do much better. When we watch my footage from training, it’s completely different, but it was a successful debut, and I’m very proud of it, and very thankful to the UFC for the opportunity and for the bonus.”

“Everything you mentioned is a part of it, and I was afraid of losing my job and my debut at the same time,” he said, voicing a worry that not many athletes are comfortable admitting, but is certainly something that runs through the mind of every aspiring competitor when they first touch down in the UFC.

So many hours have been committed to reaching this stage, getting to a point where you get to make the walk to the Octagon, so it only makes sense that there is a tinge of worry about getting to stick around for more than a fight or two that can creep into a fighter’s mind in those early days on the roster.

“Of course, I want to get to the top, I want to be champion at featherweight, but my dream is fulfilled,” he added. “Now I don’t have any pressure on my shoulders; I am so loose, so relaxed, and I think this is gonna let me perform at my fullest… or at least better than last time.”

As such, this weekend’s matchup profiles as a considerable step up in competition for the DWCS alum, who understands why audiences and oddsmakers are underestimating him heading into this fight.

And he is looking forward to changing their minds.

When asked how he sees the fight playing out and what an ideal outcome for him would be against the favored “Hillman” on Saturday, Grad said that his preference would be another second-round finish.

Why a second-round finish and not a quick, 30-second win?

“I’m fine with three rounds and a war, finish the opponent in the last moment is also good,” he added. “Then there is the opportunity to get two bonuses.”