September isn’t a month that typically comes to mind when thinking about massive moments in UFC history the way that June, July, November and December often do thanks to tentpole events like International Fight Week, the annual trip to Madison Square Garden and the final pay-per-view of the year.

But a quick scan of the list below will remind you that the first month of autumn has been host to some truly impactful contests over the years, including one of the 10 bouts that has been enshrined in the UFC Hall of Fame and last year’s consensus Fight of the Year winner.

Here’s a reminder of some of the outstanding action that has taken place inside the Octagon in the month of September.

Rua was widely considered to be the best light heavyweight on the planet — a young legend with a 16-2 record whose mythical run through the 2005 PRIDE Middleweight Grand Prix stood as one of the most impressive series of victories put forth in a single year by any competitor.

So imagine everyone’s surprise when Griffin, who UFC fans knew as a gritty brawler, submitted “Shogun” in the waning moments of their meeting in Anaheim, instantly catapulting himself into title contention in the process. It was a monumental upset for the beloved underdog and everyman.

This fight and the flyweight division as a whole arrived at a time when many UFC fans were not ready to see the level of speed, technique, and all-around skill that was frequently on display when fighters from the 125-pound weight class stepped into the Octagon.

This is one of those fights that people should go back and revisit because it’s absolutely terrific.

Speaking of terrific fights that took place in Toronto…

Ten fights have been enshrined in the UFC Hall of Fame and this is one of them, which instantly tells you it was special. Simply put, it was a pantheon-level fight that changed how we looked at both men.

Those two fights were massive, and this is where that rivalry first took root.

Here’s how close this fight was: a total of 22 individual media submitted their scores for the September 2017 women’s bantamweight title fight to MMADecisions.com, a website dedicated to having searchable records of the scores and scorecards from fights that go to a decision in several major promotions.

In addition to showing the official scorecards of all three judges, the media scores are presented in a divided column detailing how each submitting member scored the contest.\

And tell me: who wouldn’t want to see it?

The reason I chose to spotlight this particular moment out of all the cool moments in UFC history that happened in September is because we haven’t even seen one Suloev Stretch since then, let alone two.

We might see consecutive kimuras or spinning elbows again before we see tandem backpack kneebars inside the Octagon.

I reckon that’s how Ortega felt, times two.

It’s not the greatest upset in UFC history, but it’s certainly on the short list.

Both Ribovics and Zellhuber are allergic to being in boring fights; like they are hard-wired to where it’s nigh on impossible for them to step into the Octagon and engage in something other than a knock-down, drag-out, get-you-on-your-feet brawl where folks are getting staggered and bloodied and everyone goes home eager to see them back out there soon.

So what did we all think was going to happen when they were paired together with Noche UFC at Sphere as the backdrop?

It shouldn’t be a surprise that the dueling lightweights went out and captured Fight of the Year because of course they did; it was their destiny.

The whole fight is outstanding, but the third round is (chef’s kiss), as Zellhuber staggered Ribovics early, only for the Argentine to return the favor before Zellhuber steadied himself and they swung on each other like lunatics — and I say that with love and admiration — through to the final horn.