
Nathaniel Wood kicked up the slate with a quality win over Morgan Charrière, dropping him in the first before cruising to a victory on the cards before Chris Duncan tapped out Jordan Vucenic in a clash between Scotland and England. Fan favorite Molly McCann was submitted by newcomer Alexia Thainara, announcing her retirement from the sport following the defeat, with Kevin Holland returning to the win column with a sharp effort opposite Gunnar Nelson midway through the six-fight run of action.

In the co-main event, Carlos Ulberg added to his winning streak with a unanimous decision victory over former champion Jan Blachowicz before Sean Brady dominated and finished Leon Edwards in the main event, putting himself in the title conversation in the welterweight division.

Sean Brady turned a short-notice opportunity into the biggest win of his career, venturing across the pond to defeat former welterweight champ Leon Edwards to close out Saturday night’s UFC return to London.

This was one-way traffic for the final two rounds and change, with Brady looking exceptional. He’s been tabbed as a contender throughout his UFC run and established himself as such here, running through the former champion, becoming the first to finish him.

For Edwards, it’s a bitter defeat on home soil and second straight setback, leaving with plenty to ponder as he heads back to the gym to figure out his next steps.

Ulberg entered on a seven-fight winning streak, facing off with a ranked opponent for just the second time, while the former champion Blachowicz was competing for the first time since July 2023, aiming to end a modest two-fight turn without a victory. Both men had positive moments, and there was no real point where either seized dominant control of the contest, making it fun to watch and difficult to score.

When the scorecards were totalled, all three officials saw the contest for the surging New Zealander, who moved another step closer to title contention with his eighth straight victory. This was the kind of measured, patient effort Ulberg continually needs to show as he progresses up the ranks, as it shows he has the skills and abilities to win competitive bouts against world class talents.

Holland put Nelson on the canvas with a long right hand in the final seconds of the opening round, dropping him with a similar shot to the one that finished Joaquin Buckley a few years ago. Nelson survived to the horn, but Holland dominated the exchanges the rest of the way, save for a third-round arm-triangle choke attempt that the Texan patiently worked free from.

This was a strong showing for Holland after getting quickly submitted by Reinier de Ridder at the start of the year. He’s much better suited to competing at welterweight, and it will be curious to see if he commits to fighting in the 170-pound ranks going forward or continues to division hop.

Following the contest, McCann announced her retirement, bidding farewell to the sport in front of the loving fans that have been in her corner throughout her career. She wrapped her career with a beautiful speech, and should continue to be an amazing ambassador for the sport in the UK and abroad.

The Scotsman dropped Vucenic in the opening round with a clean right hand, spending the remainder of the frame controlling things with his grappling. Despite seemingly being the fresher of the two and having success on the feet, Vucenic drove forward into a takedown attempt and left his head outside, giving Duncan the opportunity to dive on his preferred submission and secure the finish.

That’s consecutive guillotine finishes for “The Problem,” who has won four of five since arriving in the UFC. He called out Terrance McKinney for a date in Miami, which might be too quick of a turnaround, but is a quality shout nonetheless.