Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Kyte: You just coached against Zhang, you have a tremendous wrestling background and understand these dynamics so well, so it only made sense to reach out and get you to break down this fight with me.

So let’s get into it — what’s the best trait of each fighter?

But I’m very interested to see how that plays out. It’s gonna be a good fight. There are a lot of boxes unchecked for me, for Tatiana, so I’m excited to see the fight.

Castillo: It’s very rare that you have a wrestler that is good in both styles of wrestling.

How big of a part do you feel that played in the last fight and does it play here?

Those are two boxes that are unticked, but there’s a ton. It’s going to be an interesting fight.

Path to Victory for Each Fighter

Kyte: What are the paths to victory for each fighter?

Kyte: If there is an X-factor in this fight, something that can switch things around — and maybe we’ve already talked about it with the championship experience part of it — but what else is there that stands out for you as an “if this happens, we could see something different.”

That’s not something people take into consideration is you’ve got an athlete that has been hurt twice, majorly, and coming back from that, you’re worried about…

Kyte: How’s my knee? Does my knee hold up?

That’s something interesting to throw out there when breaking down these fights because I’ve seen it with other fighters. It’ll be interesting to see.

Kyte: Is there a curiosity point for you as a coach, as a former competitor, that you look at with this fight that piques your interest? Anything that stands out for you?

Kyte: Me too.

I really hope we get the absolute best version of this fight possible. I think this could be rally special. I can’t wait for it!