
“It’s just motivating being a mom. Everything I do is for my daughter, so one day she can look back and even if she doesn’t re-watch the fights, she’ll see all these photos and see how cool I was, you know?”

“It just shows my durability, my credibility as a fighter; that I’ve remained one of the best in the world since I started,” she said of her continual placement amongst the best in the 115-pound weight class over the last decade and change. “I fought the best of them. I have seven losses and five of them are from champions now.

“I’m the only fighter that has fought every single champion! That was prior to Mackenzie winning, and it’s still true now.”

“After a win this weekend, I would definitely want a fight within two months, and if I didn’t get it, I would probably try to continue to move on with growing my family in the meantime. It's not gonna happen overnight, and I would still take a fight if it didn’t happen, but ideally, I’d like to win and have a fight within eight weeks, provided I don’t have any injuries or anything like that. But this six or eight months is a long time to wait.”

That’s an admission you don’t get very often from an athlete, and one that Pennington admitted is tough to acknowledge.

“It's scary, a little bit, because being a fighter has been a part of my life my entire life; I started martial arts when I was five,” she continued. “It’s been an outlet for me. Growing up, I grew up in a very rough upbringing, and it was definitely school and karate that kept me from doing other things that I could have been doing with my life, so I’m very grateful that I’ve had the opportunity to be a martial artist.

“I think it will continue to be a part of my life afterwards because, for sure, my children will learn self-defense. Whether they become fighters or like it is up to them — I’d honestly like them to not be fighters, but I’ll support them in everything they do — but it’s scary because it will close a chapter.

“I’ll look and see these younger people still going and doing it and think, ‘Man, I can still do it with them,’ but I don’t have all the time in the world to be waiting around.”

“I just gotta show that I am the veteran, I guess,” she said when asked about facing the ascending Brazilian, who has earned three straight victories to claim her own spot in the strawweight Top 15. “I know I have more Octagon experience, more fight experience overall as an athlete, just because I’m older than her and I started when I was very young. I know how to win fights, and I think that helps me too.

“Since I’ve been in there with the best of them, even though she’s a young, hungry prospect, there is nothing she can do to me that hasn’t already been tried.”

“I’ll ask for it. I can only ask for it.”