Two things about Jamey-Lyn Horth. She’s an athlete, and she isn’t one to dip her foot in the pool before jumping in.
The first part is why the Squamish native earned a UFC contract after just five pro MMA fights, and the other part is why, a month after her second Octagon win over Ivana Petrovic, she took a fight with seasoned contender Miranda Maverick last December.
“It's hard to tell your boss no, and it's really only your fourth day on the job in my mind,” Horth said of her reasoning for taking the big step-up fight against Maverick, which she lost via unanimous decision, evening her UFC slate at 2-2 heading into Saturday’s bout against Vanessa Demopoulos. “I'm here to fight and I'm here to showcase some of the skills that I learned and get better each time. Someone pointed it out to me this way that I'm still sort of a journeyman. I'm still learning. I'm a blue-collar fighter and I'm learning on the job. I only have nine pro fights under my belt, and some of the girls that I'm fighting have two-and-a-half that amount. So I'm here to get experience. I'm here to show that I belong and we're game and up for anything that they offer.”
So Horth wasn’t blinking. That mindset comes from a life in sports – first on the soccer pitch and then as an elite competitor in the Squamish Days Loggers Sports’ Chokerman race, which she won seven years in a row. She didn’t get the crown last summer, but in late-July, she returns.
“Last year I went in the pond,” she laughs. “This year I get redemption.”
Horth is also looking for some redemption this weekend, even though she has nothing to hang her head about when it comes to her last performance against a fighter who in the co-main event in Atlanta. And though the word she used - journeyman - has a negative connotation these days in combat sports, in the outside world, it’s a sign of respect. In combat sports, that tag should be placed on those who know all aspects of their craft on fight night and have the ability to get that job done against anybody.
“I think any publicity is good publicity, and if someone is calling me good, bad or ugly, obviously that means something,” she said. “It means that you're in their brain and you're on their mind. And I don't get easily offended. I know a lot of people talk a lot of s**t, but that's just social media. I'm good with constructive criticism. I feel like it stemmed from being a part of organized sports at a young age and having coaches that were hard on you, but fair and honest. And the truth is that I am learning on the job. I don't have a ton of experience. I have three amateur fights and when I made it to the UFC, I only had five pro fights. That's eight fights in my whole career. When you do the average of it, before these last two fights in November and December last year, I was fighting 1.1 fights a year in my whole career since the day I started training. So I don't have the amount of hours that a lot of these other fighters have in the cage, but I make up for it with my athleticism and my willingness to learn and my time on the mats. And I feel that I've been given a great opportunity, and I try to expedite that and learn everything I can.”
It's not an easy task, especially considering that her last three fights weren’t in the relatively cozy confines of the UFC APEX, but in arenas packed with screaming fans. But she’s handled it like a champ, and looking forward to another crowd at State Farm Arena.
“I’m super fortunate to have that because I know that not a lot of other fighters get that opportunity, even fighters that are well established in the company for years now,” said Horth. “So I feel very fortunate.”
And though she didn’t get to compete in Montreal last month, her win over Petrovic did take place in Edmonton, making it not only a personal highlight, but a statement to the MMA universe that Canadian MMA is on the rise again, something fully on display on the UFC 315 card.
“Jasmine (Jasudavicius) is doing amazing and she's putting our name on the map for Canada,” said Horth. “I think she's the toughest 125er in the division right now and she's getting what she deserves. She puts in the work and she's climbing the ladder. And Mike (Malott) put in a really great performance that night. Charles Jourdain is obviously always there to throw hands and make an exciting fight. So I’m super stoked to have other Canadian fighters representing in a huge way. The Canadians that are in the UFC currently, they're there for a reason and they're bringing it back. I'm happy to be able to be a part of that.”
Horth is also ready to start making her move up the flyweight ladder sooner rather than later.
“I can't even speak for everybody, but I’m keen to get as many fights as often as I can,” she said. “There's never a hundred percent guarantee in this game, and as I get older and I start to look at life, I would like to climb this ladder a lot faster. I like to challenge myself. I've always taken challenges, I've always said yes, and my fight career has always been saying yes to big challenges. I fought big names from the get-go, so I think that I deserve to get those shots. And arguably, that fight in December was a really tough, close fight. Had I not gotten taken down in that third round, I think we would've won that fight. So to know that I could go toe-to-toe with someone who's in the top 15, it's a little bit of a stinger because we were right there, but then, at the same time, I know I belong there. So yeah, I guess I have a little bit of urgency to get through a few more fights here and start making my name up in the top 15, for sure.”