
Saturday night in London, Lone’er Kavanagh is aiming to deliver his fighting version of this rare occurrence, stepping in against Felipe dos Santos at The O2 Arena with designs on greatly surpassing the quality effort that earned him a victory in his debut last November.

A standout under the Cage Warriors banner, Kavanagh landed his place on the UFC roster by kicking off Season 8 of Dana White’s Contender Series with the kind of knockout that takes the air out of the room: a swift left hand that instantly put fellow unbeaten prospect An Tuan Ho straight to sleep and left the UFC CEO slack-jawed as he marveled at what had just transpired in front of him.

For his debut, the Great Britain Top Team man ventured to Macau, China, the home nation of his mother, collecting a unanimous decision win over fellow debutant Jose Ochoa in a matchup that feels like it will continue to age nicely in the coming years. It wasn’t the electric performance that many were hoping for — or that Kavanagh wanted for himself — but it showed how measured and polished the British newcomer is, despite the fact that he had just seven (now eight) professional appearances under his belt.

“At first, I was a little bit disappointed with the performance because I wanted to show more,” admitted the talented flyweight, who landed on the list of Fighters on the Rise heading into 2025 at the start of the year, despite having made just a single trek into the Octagon. “But like you said, Jose was a good opponent, unbeaten, and was very dangerous.

“Looking back on it, he’s a tough fighter, and I wanted to make sure I could be more technical than him, so I had to take my time a little more,” he added. “I think the best thing you can do is win a fight and learn from it, and I definitely did from that fight.”

He is different, and his fight with Ochoa showed that, as he made sound decisions and picked his spots in the deciding third round to ensure he came away with a victory in his debut.

“Firstly, it’s an honor to be mentioned by you guys and be mentioned by other people like Nathaniel (Wood) as being someone that is different,” began the polite UFC sophomore, who looks like he could just as easily be in the latest UK boy band rising up the charts. “It’s definitely pressure; it’s definitely every now and again that I’m like, ‘Ah s***, I’ve gotta make sure this happens now because there are so many people that believe in me that I’ve got to be there and make it happen.’

When asked if there is less pressure heading into his sophomore appearance this weekend against dos Santos given that he’s already secured his first UFC victory and began establishing roots in the division, Kavanagh was quick to explain that he’s never allowed himself to think that way and doesn’t plan on shifting the way he looks at things anytime soon.

His matchup with dos Santos is one of those opportunities, as the Chute Boxe Diego Lima representative garnered a ton of praise for his gutsy performance in a losing effort in his short-notice debut opposite top contender Manel Kape and remains another of the talented, young names working to make headway in the wildly competitive flyweight division.

“My whole thing — and I truly believe in it — is that to be the best, you’ve got to fight the best, and Felipe dos Santos is definitely very good, and I want to show that I belong with these people.”