
After an opening stanza where both men spent the majority of the time feeling each other out, the tall, rangy fighter from Uzbekistan connected with a right hand that shook McConico’s equilibrium, and Ruziboev never allowed him to get his footing again. “Black” quickly chased down the debuting McConico, stinging him again on multiple occasions before referee Keith Peterson finally stepped in and halted the contest.

The 31-year-old opened his UFC tenure with consecutive stoppage wins over Brunno Ferreira and Sedriques Dumas before venturing to welterweight and dropping a decision to Joaquin Buckley. Now back at 185 pounds, Ruziboev once against looks like a dangerous name to track going forward.

The Dana White’s Contender Series alum needed one takedown in each of the first two rounds to neutralize Veretennikov, hammering home elbows and chasing submissions in the first before a torrent of unanswered punches brought about the finish in the second. As Vanderford celebrated the win, Veretennikov followed him and shoved him, saving his best offense for after the bell.

This was an outstanding win for the Portland, Oregon native, who brings a wealth of experience and excellent wrestling with him into the UFC, and now he’s got a stoppage win under his belt to kick things off.

The Vancouver, Washington native looked to wrestle in the first half of the opening round, getting inside by struggling to get Basharat to the canvas. Late in the frame as they separated into space, Simon landed a right hand that spun Basharat to the canvas unconscious.

This was a blistering way to stop a three-fight skid and a massive homecoming effort for the bantamweight veteran. After a long run in the Top 15, this one gets Simon moving in the right direction again, and cements his standing as a dangerous out for anyone looking to make a push towards the rankings.

The two men had traded sporadic shots and missed kicks throughout the majority of the the opening round before Fili hit a well-timed, open-space takedown in the center of the cage. But he left his head outside for just a second too long, and that was all the time Costa needed to connect his hands, throw his right leg over the back, and squeeze out a tap.

Easily the biggest win of his UFC career, the submission win gets the Chute Boxe Joao Emilio representative back into the win column and brings his record to 3-2 inside the Octagon.

The light heavyweights opened the contest slinging hammers, throwing caution to the wind and heavy leather at each other until Cutelaba wisely looked to change things up by putting Aslan on the deck. Though he struggled to keep him down initially, Cutelaba quickly shot again, climbing into top position, clamping onto a arm-triangle choke and securing the tap.

This was a chaotic battle and a tremendous effort for “The Hulk,” who remains one of the most consistent all-action fighters on the roster. Win or lose, when Cutelaba steps into the Octagon, excitement is bound to happen, and it did again on Saturday night in Seattle.