Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

He seems so strong and mentally tough right now that I don’t think it matters who you put in front of him; he fully believes there is no way he can lose.

And then, with O’Malley, it’s obviously his striking.

Kyte: I agree on both fronts.

So when you’ve got a guy carrying that much confidence in their abilities, how big is that when they step into the Octagon?

As a coach, if you can go in there with a fighter that is ultimately confident wherever the fight goes, and knows they have the big trump card in their back pocket with the cardio, it’s very confidence-inducing as a coach.

Kyte: So with O’Malley, it’s obviously his striking that has gotten him to this point, and I always think back to something Sean Madden and I have talked about with really great strikers and what makes them great is their eyes, their vision, their reads; that ability to figure out the right shot, pick the right spot like the knockout of Aljamain Sterling.

We didn’t see that last time out. He seemed super-tentative.

If you’re Tim Welch — or even just tagged in to be in his corner — and we’ve got that previous 25 minutes to draw from, and the striking is clearly his best weapon, how do you prep him for this one to get him using those weapons?

So rather than looking for the perfect counter, you have to get in there, get them on defense, hold the center so that now they’re reactively wrestling, rather than proactively wrestling, and you’re leading the dance. You have to get in there and get on offense

Plain and simple: you’ve gotta go. Easier said than done, like you said, but he has to be more active. His best skill is his striking, and he has to use it.

Chartier: There are two options, right? He can get taken down trying to defend takedowns, or he can get taken down trying to land strikes; what’s going to give you the better chance of winning?

Kyte: This one feels pretty straightforward and obvious, but if we can find some nuance here, let’s try and sort it out.

What’s the path to victory for each guy?

Chartier: You saw he got a little frustrated in the last fight, but when you have those 25 minutes of experience and the fact that he ended it on a positive note, you can parlay that into this fight.

I think there are two ways you can react to that last fight: one is “he’s just gonna lay on me, he doesn’t wanna fight; it’s so frustrating” or you can accept that he’s probably gonna take you down, but “if I have the right reactions, I know I can get up, and I know I can hurt him on the feet.”

You’ve got to keep making him work, not get panicked when you get taken down, just get up, and when you’re in those positions to land, you’ve gotta land, because last time he waited too long.

I’m very interested to see which of those reactions comes this time around.

Kyte: Okay — what, if anything, is the X-factor in this fight?

Chartier: I think it’s O’Malley’s mindset coming into this one.

He toned down the social media, and a big one to me is that he stopped smoking weed. I think it does affect you — we don’t know how much because there haven’t been any actual studies done about it yet — but I’ve notice the difference in terms of how present athletes are in camp when they have a clear mind because they’re not smoking.

They’re there, they’re working, and the clarity they have and the overall attitude is better. Obviously he thought something was going on if he got off it, and with social media, that can be pretty addictive and there is a lot of BS, so I’m interested to see what kind of mindset he comes in with based on the changes he made.

Does he come in with a more peaceful mind, more clarity in camp, a more present athlete? With less distractions? Because that could mean he’s a more dangerous athlete.

Kyte: Yeah, I’m there with you because this is also one where, in theory, if he loses again, we’re into all the questions and talk about “how good was he” and “paper champion” and whatnot, and I wonder how much working to avoid some of that stuff has gone into the decisions you’re talking about?It feels a little “I want to go out and prove myself” to me. I wonder if after that first one, he really wants to show that he’s not just this technicolor social media guy; he’s the genuine article and still a real factor in the division, now and going forward?

Kyte: Right — he had more success than lots of people, especially in that last round. And we don’t know how bad that injury was.

We were told he wasn’t able to grapple during the entire camp, so how much does that factor into things?

Chartier: Yeah, sometimes that’s where a good coach will insert those little explanations to steer their fighter towards being more confident next time out. They drop that little Easter egg — “I’m pretty happy how we did given that we couldn’t wrestle last camp. This camp we’re going to be better, we’re going to be able to do everything” — and then the fighter is fired up, buying into it.

Not saying that’s what is happening here, but if it were, that would be smart.

Kyte: In terms of a curiosity point, what’s the thing you’re looking to see or the question you want answered?

Chartier: I’m not curious about anything in the fight, but I’m curious to see how O’Malley reacts after the fight.

Let’s say he goes out and loses again: are there more excuses? New excuses? Does he move up to ’45? Does he take some time off? I’m interested to see if he loses the same way and realizes “I’m not as good as this one guy,” what does that do for him going forward?

Or does he lose his confidence?

It’s going to be interesting to see.

Kyte: It sure is!

