
What It Means: “Lord” Silva is a bundle of enthusiastic and violent energy. He likes to methodically break down his opponents with his footwork and pressure out of his wide stance, and he is dangerous moving forward and backward. He doesn’t require much to land with great impact, and his sense of range and timing shines when he throws his variety of spinning attacks, knees and elbows.

What to Look For in the Fight: Essentially, this is a striker-vs-grappler matchup. Mitchell would be well served to press Silva early and test the Brazilian’s grappling defense, but Silva has the kind of power to starch someone from any position. His defensive grappling has proven decent so far, but Mitchell is definitely the most accomplished MMA grappler he has faced so far.

What It Means: Light on her feet, Yan is a sharp and patient striker who likes to pepper her opponents from range and stay out of danger. She is quick and can string together long combinations that start or end with a kick to the midsection or to the legs, and she varies her targets well. She has the power to rock opponents, and she is selective with the moments she chooses to sit down on a strike.

What It Means: “Carcara” is a wizard of a submission artist. Over the course of her career, her striking and wrestling have improved enough to make the most of her jiu jitsu skills, but a fight with Jandiroba always comes down with how well a fighter can navigate the grappling realm. She is patient when fishing for submissions, but when she finds a window of opportunity, she pursues it with a frightening efficiency.

What to Look For in the Fight: Another stirker-vs-grappler matchup, Yan has shown excellent takedown defense in the past, and she does well to regain distance and get back to the center of the Octagon. Jandiroba will be at an athletic disadvantage, but if she can drag the fight to the ground, she will have her chances to either control Yan on the canvas or threaten submissions. Yan will likely circle on the outside, where she can walk Jandiroba into bigger strikes as the fight wears on and frustration sets in for the Brazilian.