
Green shakes his head, making it clear that the final part has never and will never sit all that well with him.

Born in San Bernardino, California, Green entered foster care at age five and bounced from home to home to home to home to home. He found wrestling in high school and then mixed martial arts, but has dealt with tremendous loss, including the passing of his beloved grandmother and the death of his younger brother, as well as the shooting of his older brother.

Cast for many years as a disruptor, the reality is that Green has always been about uplifting his community and taking care of his people, which remains his driving force to this day.

“I was asking myself, ‘When am I gonna get the hell outta here?’ but then I saw Jim Miller had another fight, and I was like, ‘This guy’s still going? I can’t leave before this guy!’” Green said, breaking into laughter, a massive smile washing over his face. “I can’t leave before him. He’s gotta go before me, so I’ve still got more in me.”

As we laugh, I inform Green that Miller, whom he defeated last April at UFC 300, wants to get to 50 appearances inside the Octagon before finally hanging up his gloves, and with him currently sitting on 45 following his win over Damon Jackson at UFC 309 in November, he’s still got a few more in him.

Which means Green does too, right?

“He wants to get to 50?” Green asked, astounded. “Damn. Holy s***! How many do I got? Do I got that much in me? I think I’m at 20-something.”

Saturday’s bout against Mauricio Ruffy will be Green’s 27th appearance under the UFC banner.

“Holy s*** — that means I gotta do 23 more fights?” he said, chuckling, when informed where he’s at. “Jim, I hate you. I may have beat you, but you got the last laugh on me.”

One person Green has no interest in allowing to have the last laugh is Ruffy, the intriguing Dana White’s Contender Series graduate and Fighting Nerds representative who posted a pair of wins in his rookie campaign last year as part of the Sao Paulo-based outfit’s breakthrough year in the Octagon in 2024.

Touted by team leader and UFC middleweight contender Caio Borralho as the most talented member of the team, Ruffy blew people away with his debut win over Australian veteran Jamie Mullarkey, but struggled more than most anticipated in his sophomore appearance against James Llontop later in the year.

A dynamic and creative striker, Green is looking forward to sharing the Octagon with someone that could try to match his swagger, but is focused on showing the rising star that he’s not yet at his level.