Originally a war cry, the fa’auma is now more commonly used as a way of expressing excitement or happiness, and on that particular evening last week, it was an acknowledgement to and from Dwayne “The Rock” Johnson and the WWE Universe that each was happy to see the other and excited to see how the first Monday Night Raw on Netflix would soon unfold.

When presented with the idea of splicing last Monday’s fa’auma onto the start of whatever track he chooses for his walkout music on Saturday night at UFC 311, the promotional newcomer’s eyes lit up.

It’s understandable that the 29-year-old hasn’t given much thought to creating a mash-up using Johnson’s moment in the ring from last week because as of Friday morning, he was just another fighter heading to training; venturing to the gym in order to get some work in with his friends and teammates.

When he walked through the door, everything changed.

“It was Friday I found out; Friday morning,” he said with a smile, detailing how he learned that he would be replacing Johnny Waker opposite Guskov this weekend on the first UFC pay-per-view of 2025. “I went in to train Friday morning, open mat, and I walked in and everyone came up to me like, ‘Hey man – we heard the big news!’ and I was like, ‘What big news?’

Just saying the words brought a smile to his face.

A pro since 2021, Elekana has competed under the LFA and PFL banners, most recently collecting a first-round stoppage win over Jureall Simmons back in July before a bout with Dana White’s Contender Series alum Justin Sumter in November was scuttled when he was forced to withdraw.

Before that, Elekana logged eight amateur appearances, battling Xtreme Couture product Ty Gwerder to a majority decision and earning a split decision win over TUF winner and currently surging welterweight Bryan Battle.

When you combine those experiences with the immense gratitude and sense of calm he feels heading into the weekend, it creates a scenario for Elekana where he believes he’ll be able to showcase his talents and shock the world by getting the better of Guskov on Saturday evening.

“Yes, it’s the biggest promotion in the world, but it’s nothing new, though; a fight is a fight at the end of the day. His mentality versus my mentality. His hard work versus my hard work; that’s all it comes down to. I know he’s a scary guy, but I’m a big Samoan; I can take a punch. The fight is gonna happen how the fight happens.

“I’m ready for this,” he added with a grin. “I think it’s the perfect time for me, too: I’m 29, reaching my prime, and I think this is a perfect opportunity for me. It’s a good fight for me. I’m gonna really figure out who I am in this fight.”

While some of that is down to the fact that people believe he looks like a less tattooed, Uzbekistani version of Anthony “Lionheart” Smith, it’s also that after dropping his own short-notice debut against Top 15 fixture Volkan Oezdemir at the tail end of 2023, the 32-year-old “Czarevitch” dispatched both Zac Pauga and Ryan Spann last year, collecting a Performance of the Night bonus in each fight while running his record to 17-3 overall.

“He’s a monster — everybody knows who this guy is,” Elekana said of Guskov, whom he acknowledged being a fan of and having paid close attention to his last couple outings. “He’s a scary guy, the hardest guy I have ever fought, but I think it will be a good fight.

Not that he’s just going to go out there and look to wrestle Guskov from the jump.

“He has a lot of holes when it comes to the grappling game,” he said. “I’m not saying I’m just gonna grapple this guy — I’m gonna stand with him, for sure — but if the opportunity presents itself, I will take that opportunity.

“I’m gonna sit in there, be patient, but I will try to snipe this guy’s face off. I’m not going to play in there. I’m very sharp with everything I do, very patient, but if this guy leaves me any openings, I will make him pay.

“And if I hit him, he will fall.”