
While injuries are a part of the sport and all of them carry varying degrees of annoyance, pain, and misery, back injuries and anything involving the spine are particularly troublesome and worrying due to the interconnected nature of the human body.

A broken hand sucks, but doesn’t necessarily impact much beyond the fingers, the hand itself, and at most, the arm its connected to, where back and neck issues bring up concerns about the spine and nerves, and a herniated disc or tweak somewhere along that track can trigger issues elsewhere in the body.

“I’ve had a couple shoulder problems (in the past) and at that time, my ankle was also bothering me. I’ve had knee problems, but the biggest one has always been the herniations in my spine. So I was in the middle of wrestling practice and I was having a hard time, constantly getting stingers, my back is locking up, and I literally left practice crying; I left in tears. I was like, ‘Man, I don’t know how much longer I want to do this for.’

“I took a couple days away from the gym to get my mind right, and I was like, ‘Maybe it’s one of those things where I can go one step at a time instead of trying to go all-in at once.’

“I love the art — I want to show off my art, show off what I can do and the best version of myself, but the body doesn’t always agree. It’s one of those things where things are looking better than they did before, so I can’t really complain and I’m just happy to be back.

“It’s always the same for me: the closer it gets, the more it feels like I’m very lucky and I’m very, very blessed to be able to do this,” continued the ever-positive athlete. “No matter how things go, at the end of the day, I’m one of the few people that is getting to live out my dreams. These are things that as I kid, I talked about doing, and now I’m living in it.

“Sometimes we lose perspective of that based on results or internet trolls, stuff like that, but whenever it gets to fight week, closer to fight time, it all starts to hit again like, ‘Man, you’re literally living your dreams!’ The gratitude is always there for me.”

“So it’s one of those things where you can’t wallow in pity or say ‘woe is me.’ Everybody goes into these situations all the time with something off — people make fun of (Kamaru) Usman’s knees all the time, and that’s one of those things that motivates me all the time.”