Heading into UFC 300 last April, Sodiq Yusuff was excited to be returning to action only six months after his previous appearance.

The Dana White’s Contender Series graduate was on the sidelines for 14 months following his 2020 win over Andre Fili, 11 months after returning to face Arnold Allen, and a tick over a year between his win over Don Shainis and his October 2023 main event battle with Edson Barboza, so in the grand scheme of things, a six-month turnaround felt expeditious for the Nigerian.

Unfortunately, following an 89-second loss to Diego Lopes last April, Yusuff was on the sidelines once more, and is just now set to return this weekend up a division for a lightweight clash with recent Ultimate Fighter winner Mairon Santos.

“It’s just been a lot of injuries; a lot of spinal and disc injuries,” Yusuff said on Wednesday morning, posted up in his hotel room, finally just a few days away from making the walk to the Octagon again. “A few herniations in my back and a few in my neck, so it’s just been dealing with that, being able to mitigate it and trying to get the body to get back in order.”

Such was the case for Yusuff on the day he walked out of practice in tears, unsure about his future competing under the UFC banner.

“This has probably been the closest I’ve ever been to hanging it up, just because my body wasn’t keeping up anymore,” admitted the Maryland-based fighter, who carries a 13-4 mark into his return to action on Saturday at the UFC APEX. “There was one day I was trying to push through a practice and everything hurt at the time.

“Slowly, but surely, things started to get a little better,” continued Yusuff. “I started doing as much rehab as I can to mitigate the pain, make my back as strong as I can so I don’t have these problems.”

True to his nature, Yusuff smiled and laughed, before offering up a beautiful bigger picture perspective on things.

“I remember a long time ago, I heard Nick Diaz say, ‘This is one of those things where you have to love it so much that you hate it,’” he began, laughing and acknowledging that he very much understands what Stockton’s favorite son meant and was feeling.

That perspective and gratitude fuel the way Yusuff is approaching this weekend’s clash with Santos, who enters off a debated split decision win over Francis Marshall in March and brandishing a 16-1 record overall.

It’s also an extension of the message he preaches to those he trains with and that are looking to learn from his example.

“I kind of look at it as (playing) the hand that you’re dealt, and you’ve got to put your best foot forward,” he said. “Whatever your 100 percent is, you have to maximize that. I tell the guys at the gym all the time, ‘If your 100 percent is being able to train one hour a month, maximize those opportunities.’

“So it’s one of those things where you can’t wallow in pity or say ‘woe is me.’ Everybody goes into these situations all the time with something off — people make fun of (Kamaru) Usman’s knees all the time, and that’s one of those things that motivates me all the time.”

Poking fun at his fellow Nigerian and the perpetual talk about his balky knees brought a chuckle out of Yusuff, but the greater sentiment is serious.

“Everybody is dealing with something,” he added, making it clear he has no intention of allowing the lingering maladies he’s dealing with to dampen his spirit or keep him from returning to action on Saturday.

And when he does make that walk for the first time in exactly 400 days, expect to see a massive smile plastered across his face.

“Man,” began Yusuff, an extended beat of silence hanging in the air before he continued. “To be honest, to me, it’s just an opportunity to get to do what I love again.”