
From the opening bout through to the final featherweight pairing, each set of competitors stepped into the cage looking to entertain and impress, with each of the victors doing so in spades. Starting with Nora Cornolle’s submission win over Hailey Cowan and Marco Tulio lighting up Tresean Gore onto impressive finishes by Michal Oleksiejczuk and Julian Erosa, everything built to stand out efforts from Chase Hooper and Virna Jandiroba before wrapping with Dan Ige collecting a third-round stoppage win over Sean Woodson.

After a pair of competitive, close rounds to open the fight, Ige connected with a left hand that shook Woodson’s equilibrium. The Hawaiian veteran took his time to find the right shots, eventually forcing the stoppage with a series of unanswered blows to the side of the head.

The win halts a two-fight slide for the 33-year-old Ige and ends Woodson’s seven-fight unbeaten streak. This is another example of why Ige is such a vital part of the featherweight ecosystem, and remains a standout talent in the lower third of the divisional ranks.

Erosa was dialled in from the jump, hurting Elkins with his opening jab before rocking him with an upkick that “The Damage” never recovered from. For the next several minutes, Erosa picked Elkins apart, hurting him multiple times and leaving him face down on the canvas before the fight was ultimately halted.

With the win, Erosa moves to 31-11 overall and matches his longest UFC winning streak to date, collecting his third consecutive stoppage win. He’s making steady progress up the divisional ranks, and should earn another step up in competition next time out given his recent run of quality form.

Oleksiejczuk stalked the DWCS grad from the outset, picking his spots and slinging hands, making Dumas uncomfortable the entire time. After knocking the American off balance and sending him to the canvas, Oleksiejczuk swarmed and unloaded, forcing referee Marc Goddard to step in and wave off the action.

While Dumas complained about the stoppage, this was a quality finish for the Polish veteran, who recognized the opportunity to collect the finish and made sure to seal the deal. The 30-year-old has been consistently entertaining throughout his UFC run, and should remain a formidable talent in the middle of the 185-pound ranks.

“The Tibetan Eagle” was the more effective striker throughout, landing from range and frustrating Raposo throughout. In the moments where he got taken down, Sumudaerji was able to get up quickly and avoid taking any real damage, often landing the only strikes in the clinch exchanges after he worked back to his feet.

The pair delivered one of the most entertaining first five minutes of the year on Saturday, with Tulio clearly getting the better of things and hurting Gore a couple times, while the TUF alum had some positive moments of his own. In the second, Tulio continued to unload and vary his targets, connecting at a tremendous clip, with power, initiating the finishing sequence with a thunderous head kick that he was never able to truly recover from.

After blowing through Ihor Potieria in his debut, “Matuto” delivered a statement win here, showing the diversity of his striking game and an ability to throw and land with power without slowing down. Just an outstanding performance from the recent Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) grad, who looks like someone to keep close tabs on in the middleweight division.