
Funny, in this sense, doesn’t mean comical or amusing, but rather confounding, and ultimately instructive; the kind of thing that makes you shake your head and realize that some of things you believed all along may not hold true.

For Sidey, it’s a critical lesson learned in the early stages of his UFC career, and one that has completely reshaped the way he’s thinking about things heading into this weekend’s clash with Smotherman.

“Now I understand that, for me, the real goal is the inner game: the game in my mind, the game of bringing the best version of myself; that’s what I’m chasing,” resumes the former Battlefield Fight League bantamweight champion. “Results aside, it’s how I feel and how I perform that day that is going to matter the most.

“When I started this journey, I thought that you win and get the validation and all of those things — as long as I win, I’m gonna be happy, but then winning my last fight and not feeling that happiness taught me that valuable lesson. It’s not the validation — that’s my ego talking, man.

“I’m sitting in my room after the fight and sure, I got the win, have a little bit of relief that I’m not 0-2 in the UFC, but I’m not proud of myself. Now I know it’s not about the results — it’s about enjoying the moment and being the best version of myself.”

He takes a pull from his water bottle before continuing.

“Paradoxically, if I go out there and enjoy the moment, I’m my best self in that moment, the results that I want are more likely to happen,” he adds, grinning at the richness of that reality. “That’s the mindset I’m bringing into this fight and carrying for the rest of my career.

“I’m glad I got these lessons early in my UFC career because understanding that is so important.”

Another important lesson the UFC sophomore learned last year during his freshman campaign was the value of getting out of one’s comfort zone and travelling to get different looks, with different athletes.

“I’ve always known Lyndon has my best interest in mind, wants the best for my career, but that was a really cool moment because some coaches try to cling onto you,” he says, immediately zeroing in on the thing that can at times prevent conversations like this from happening between athletes and coaches. “They don’t want you to go get new information because they think you might leave them; you might find a new place to get better.

“But because Lyndon cares about me so much, he understands that is what’s gonna help me grow, and that meant a lot for me.”

As it turned out, a path to getting looks elsewhere was laid a few years earlier, when one of his friends and former training partners picked up stakes and moved to Phoenix, Arizona to train at The MMA Lab, which boasts a trio of ranked UFC bantamweights amongst its permanent ranks.

“I treat my life like an adventure, like a movie, and that was a new adventure for me,” he adds with a smile. “I try to keep a growth mindset and embrace all the opportunities, embrace the suffering, the uncomfortable moments because those are the places where you’re gonna grow. I remind myself of that every day with the books I read, the podcasts I listen to, all that stuff.

“When I put it into that perspective, it all becomes fun, all becomes exciting, and a new adventure.”

For the introspective and curious Canadian hopeful, working on the mental side of the game is just as critical to his success as hitting the gym each day, perhaps more.

“It’s everything for me, to be honest,” he says when asked about his daily reading and journaling habits, as well as the overall influence of the content he consumes. “When I started my career, even as an amateur, I always had the physical, but the one thing I lacked was the mental, that belief in myself. I could always be a workhorse, I could always grind, but mentally is where I kind of struggled in the beginning, so I started to dive into all that self-development stuff.

“Now, I have to be reading that stuff every day. I chip away at myself every day and I refresh my brain with this. We get programmed a certain way as we grow up, and there are a lot of things I have to release, a lot of things I have to unlearn, and adding in these books, these podcasts, listening to people that are successful and have done it before is a huge help.

“It’s been a game-changer for me and, like you said, I really believe that at this level, everybody is a great athlete, everybody is a great performer, but in those 15 minutes that you get locked in that cage, can you be your best self? That’s where the mental and spiritual part really comes into it.”

“I only found out about that whole main card thing (on Saturday) night,” he says, a massive smile spreading across his face, his eyes lighting up with excitement. “It’s so exciting. Funny enough, I always — as a kid, I just wanted to be a performer; I always wanted to perform for crowds.

“It all started when I was in Grade 9 and going to a high school talent show, seeing some kid playing the guitar and singing, and all the girls were (going crazy). I was like, ‘Damn, dude — I can’t sing, but I wanna perform somehow.’”

“Cam’s an awesome fighter,” begins Sidey, offering his assessment of his opponent, the excitement about wading into the fray in less than a week still shimmering in his eyes. “I like his style, I think he’s exciting. He’s a pressure-heavy guy, he brings the fight. He likes to strike, I like to strike, and so I really think the UFC did a good job matching us up because there is no way this fight isn’t going to be exciting. We’re gonna have a lot of fun. We’re gonna stand and throw bombs.

“I think he’s a tough opponent, and I think that’s gonna bring out the best version of me,” he adds. “I need a good dance partner. I need someone that is gonna push my limits, and I think the way he pushes the pace, the way he fights is gonna bring it out of me. I’m super-excited to go get a Fight of the Night with this guy.”

After an educational rookie campaign on the UFC roster and a few months to ready for the beginning of his sophomore campaign, the talented Dana White’s Contender Series graduate finds himself armed with a new mental approach and the same abundance of weapons that made him an intriguing addition to the bantamweight ranks when he claimed a UFC contract in the fall of 2023.

Now, as he readies to make his main card debut in the biggest promotion in the sport, Sidey is both counting down the days until Saturday and eager to see if he can blend the positive feelings from his debut effort with the outcome of his second appearance last year into one this weekend in Des Moines.

“I think I’m figuring out this game,” he says. “I think I’m figuring out the mental, figuring out how I need to perform, how I have to bring myself into the moment to be the best version of myself. Now I’m just excited to go out there and see if I can put it together, and that’s the fun part!

“I’m gonna go out there, give it my best effort, bring all these tools that I have, lessons that I’ve learned, and I’ve been visualizing getting my hand raised every day for the last six weeks. I’m gonna make this a reality; I truly think so.”