Serhiy Sidey got to make his UFC debut at home last January, when he faced off with Ramon Taveras in a rematch of their Dana White’s Contender Series encounter at UFC 297 in Toronto. After getting busted up in the first round, the Aegis MMA representative started to find his footing, and by the time the final horn sounded, many in attendance at Scotiabank Arena and watching at home felt like the Burlington, Ontario native had done enough to earn the victory.

The judges felt otherwise, awarding Taveras the split decision win in what was one of the best fights of 2024. Ten months later, the 28-year-old made his sophomore appearance in the UFC cage, facing off with Garret Armfield on the preliminary card in Edmonton. This time, it was Sidey that came out on the happy side of the split decision verdict, only the man that stood victorious in the center of the Octagon didn’t feel like he’d done enough to earn the win.

Just a few days ahead of his 2025 debut against Cameron Smotherman this weekend at Wells Fargo Arena in Des Moines, Iowa, the talented bantamweight prospect reflected on the lessons learned in those first two contests, which have been reinforced in the text of the latest book he’s been reading.

“I’m reading this book right now called Inner Excellence, and one chapter in this book kind of breaks down what we’re talking about and what just happened in my last two fights perfectly,” begins Sidey, posted up against the wall at the gym, having just completed his last set of sprints before readying to head to the American heartland. “It was talking about how you go out there, you have your best performance to date, but you take a loss. Then you go out there, have a performance that you’re not so proud of, but you get the win. After, which one feels better?

“Now when I look back at it, I’m like, ‘The one where I lost, but I gave it my all,’” he continues, smiling. “That one, in my heart of hearts, felt much better than this last one. After re-watching the (Armfield) fight, I see how I got it, but I know that wasn’t the best version of myself that came out that night, and even though I got the win, in my heart, it didn’t feel as good as when I lost, but put a performance of a lifetime in. It’s funny how that works.”

In between his loss to Toronto and his win in Edmonton, Sidey sat down with his longtime coach Lyndon Whitlock, who told him it was time to figure out someplace he could go in order to train with more people.

It’s the type of conversation that not every coach is willing to have with their athlete, but the one that the best coaches and mentors know is both inevitable and invaluable. It’s why the moment in Ted Lasso when Higgins tells Keeley that “a good mentor hopes you’ll move on; a great mentor knows you will” resonates with so many people.

And it’s why Sidey was so grateful Whitlock pushed him out the door.

“My boy Vinny Diaz, — he’s a pro bantamweight; I believe he’s 6-0 now, and one of the highest-level grapplers, best grapplers I have ever trained with — he moved down to The Lab,” explains Sidey, who enjoyed his initial experience in the Arizona desert so much that it has become a regular part of his preparation. “I messaged Vinny and I went down to The Lab for the first time last camp, and that’s where I met John Crouch, who is the head coach there. Me and him connected right away — he’s an amazing guy, amazing coach — and I just bonded with the team really, really well.

“Guys like Mario Bautista, Marcus McGhee, Kyler Phillips — they’re like my homies. The first week I was there, the day I got there, I felt like these guys were my brothers, and I was like, ‘This is a place I’m going to be coming back to’ because there is so much talent there.

“This time I came down, we got three weeks of work, a lot of work in with Marcus and Mario,” continues the Ukrainian-born Canadian. “The room is insane, and not just for the bantamweights, but the guys coming up too. Every round I had was a hard round. It’s a place I’m going to be spending half my time.

Like many of today’s athletes, Sidey has put a great deal of attention and focus into the mental side of his profession and simply working to better understand his own motivations, drives, and perspectives. As amusing as people found it seeing Philadelphia Eagles standout receiver A.J. Brown reading on the sidelines earlier this season, it’s actually something that reinforces his commitment to his craft and wanting to be better.

It also happened to be the same book Sidey is currently reading.

“It’s not a one-time thing either: I have to do it every single day,” continues Sidey, whose Instagram stories frequently show pictures of his daily reading routine. “I have to start my morning with it so that I can bring a new perspective into that day in order to have the most successful day.

Saturday night, the promising second-year fighter will carry an 11-2 record into the Octagon to face off with Smotherman in his first main card assignment since signing with the UFC.

While he’s headlined fight cards in the past as a champion in multiple promotions during his time on the regional circuit, being under the bright lights and in a big spot isn’t anything new for him, but doing it at this level is, and the tattooed bantamweight couldn’t be more excited for the opportunity.