
Each of the first four bouts ended before the third round, highlighted by a second-round submission finish for streaking strawweight Jaqueline Amorim and a walk-off, first-round knockout win for newcomer Malcolm Wellmaker. Competitive, entertaining clashes at bantamweight, featherweight, and lightweight followed before the prelims wrapped in the flyweight division with Matt Schnell and Jimmy Flick turning in a barnburner to close things out.

When the scorecards were collected and tallied, it was the returning Schnell that emerged victorious, halting a three-fight slide and collecting the 17th win of his career. For the game Flick, it’s a second straight setback and fourth loss in five bouts since returning to the UFC following a brief retirement.

Fighting for the first time in nine months, Elder looked sharp in the short-notice pairing, taking the fight to Young, who accepted the assignment last weekend. He struck well throughout, utilizing kicks to all ranges and some clean punches to constantly stay just a little bit ahead of the game new arrival and fellow Missouri native.

All three judges scored the fight in favor of Elder, who pushed his record to 3-2 inside the Octagon with his third straight victory. The 28-year-old is a solid overall athlete and continues to impress each time out, while Young showed he has a future at this level with his performance here.

Gutierrez was the more effective of the two over the first two rounds, as he landed at better than 75 percent with his signature leg kicks. He dropped Castaneda with a right hand in the first, swept his legs out from under him with a kick in the second. Castaneda had more success in the second, elevating and depositing Gutierrez on the canvas midway through the round, chasing a guillotine in the final minute, but coming up empty.

Two of the three judges scored the fight in favour of Gutierrez, who has now earned consecutive victories and earned three wins in his last four outings. Like Blackshear in the previous fight, the Factory X Muay Thai representative is a rock-steady figure just outside the rankings in the 135-pound weight class, and should continue to thrive there going forward.

Blackshear opened hot, using his range and diverse assortment of strikes to connect at all levels and open up a lead to start. Alatengheili seemingly rallied in the second, getting inside the range of his opponent and landing with force, showing a greater urgency in the middle stanza. Both men had some positive moments in the third, with Blackshear flashing his speed, variety, and volume, while “The Mongolian Knight” continued to hunt for one-hitter quitters to put Blackshear out.

The bantamweights took the first 90 seconds to measure one another and find their ranges, but then as Saaiman threw a lunging lead right hook, Wellmaker countered inside with a thunderclap of a right that caught the South African clean and sent him dropping to the canvas.

You’re not going to see many better finishes to kick off a UFC career than this one. Just an absolute breakout performance for the undefeated Wellmaker, who should get a chance to chase down a bigger opportunity next after a performance like this one.

Cuamba was a little hesitant, but still effective in the first round, showing the speed he possesses in his hands while dealing with the aggressive offense coming back his way well. He got looser with his striking in the second, believing in his weapons more and more as each shot landed before timing up a jumping knee that caught Romero on the button and sent him tumbling to the canvas.

After getting a win, but not on contract on Season 7 of Dana White’s Contender Series, Cuamba got called up to the UFC last year, landing on the wrong side of the results in each of his first two outings. He looked sharp throughout this one and should continue to blossom as he garners more experience at this level.

From the jump, “La Pantera” was on the offensive, pressuring forward and touching Chandler with long punches and hard body kicks, growing with confidence as the round ticked on. She continued to stalk forward and throw, and after backing Chandler into the fence, a left hand finally sent her crashing to the canvas, halting the action.