
“I’m still looking at martial arts as if I’m a white belt. I’m still hungry for the knowledge, I’m excited for practice, I genuinely enjoy practice every single day; there is nothing that I love to do more.

“When I get those nerves before the fight, I think, ‘I’m gonna miss these nerves,’ so I really try to embrace every minute of it; the positive and the negative. I’m trying my best to take it in.”

“I never know what doors are gonna open up after each fight; I’m never looking too far ahead because then I would miss what’s going on right now,” Jasudavicius added. “I didn’t have any thought about (this fight), think it was a possibility or anything like that, but when it was presented, it was ‘Okay, let’s do it! Let’s jump on these big opportunities!’”

And once she’s got a goal in mind or a mission to attack, the affable Canadian is like a dog on a bone.

It’s apparently been that way her entire life.

“I think it’s been a forever thing,” she said laughing when asked about her trademark tenacity and grit, which comes out more and more the deeper she progresses into fights. “I’m sure MMA has definitely harnessed it, but I remember my dad telling me a story where when I was a little baby, there was a radio with a nob on it, and I kept crawling to it, trying to turn it. My dad would pull me away, and I would crawl back to it, and he would pull me away.

“He said it was to the point where he had to move me to the other side of the room and I would still come at it.”

“I love it,” she said when asked about feeling her opponents melt under her relentless forward pursuit and offensive output. “It’s one of those things where it’s hard to do, and I have to do that in the room to be able to do that when the lights are on, when the eyes are on me. So it’s a very fulfilling thing where it’s like ‘all my hard work, this is why I do it’ — so that I’m able to get that finish in the later rounds, so I still have that steam in the later rounds, I have that squeeze.

“It feels like more of a job well done,” she continued, laughing, before adding, “You definitely feel a surge of energy because of it.”

After what she called a “pretty epic year,” the active and engaging Canadian is ready to make the walk again this weekend, taking on the next biggest test of her career, aware that a win on Saturday would go a long way to helping her keep making forward progress in the flyweight division.

“She’s obviously talented and I’ve got to be careful,” began Jasudavicius. “She’s fought for the title before, so it would be a big step to showing where my skills are at and what I’m capable of.

“But I want to get to that belt myself.”