Jasmine Jasudavicius emits her own brand of electricity and energy; you feel it when she walks into a room and it even transmits through a camera while you sit at home and she’s perched on her bed in a hotel room in Riyadh, days away from facing Mayra Bueno Silva in a critical flyweight bout that also happens to be the first UFC bout between female talents to take place in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia.

Constantly smiling with her long hair draped over her shoulders, you get the sense that there aren’t too many spur-of-the-moment adventures the St. Catharines, Ontario native would pass up if presented with the opportunity. But despite her devil may care spirit, even she admits that if you told her she’d be a Top 15 fighter in the UFC flyweight division on the day she first asked her now coach and partner Chris Prickett to let her spar, she would have thought you were crazy.

“‘No way! You’re drunk!’” she said, chasing her words with a laugh when asked how she would have reacted if someone presented her current standing within the division as where she’d be six-plus years and 15 fights into her professional career.

But the Canadian standout, who came to the sport late, but has thrown herself into it fully from Day One, has a keen understanding of how and why she’s been able to go from being a complete neophyte to a fighter on the rise in the ultra-competitive 125-pound weight class.

“I feel like I’m a rookie and a vet all at the same time, somehow,” began Jasudavicius, who earned victories over Priscila Cachoeira, Fatima Kline, and Ariane da Silva in 2024 to advance to 6-2 inside the Octagon and 12-3 overall heading into her clash with Bueno Silva on Saturday. “I think that’s why I’ve been able to get into the sport late and still reach my potential.

“Even when I was in camp in Thailand, on my rest days, I would still go to the gym and watch,” she said of her time at Bangtao Muay Thai and MMA. “I genuinely love martial arts, and I think maybe if I was doing it ever since I was a child, maybe I wouldn’t have that spark, that love for it. But in addition to that, I have been very active — I do fight a lot — and I feel like I’ve gained a lot of experience in the cage, so I’m very fortunate to gain that, but still be hungry for more knowledge.”

The passion for the sport and hunger to continue learning and developing has been a huge factor in Jasudavicius’ rise through the ranks and active schedule since she earned her place on the UFC roster with a dogged decision win over Julia Polastri on the fifth season of Dana White’s Contender Series.

She fought twice in her rookie campaign, earning a unanimous decision win over Kay Hansen before landing on the opposite side of a similar result in a bout with Natalia Silva that continues to age nicely with each passing year. She opened 2023 with consecutive wins over Gabriella Fernandes and Miranda Maverick before dropping a competitive decision to Tracy Cortez at Noche UFC, and then stacked up a trio of wins last year to force her way into the Top 15.

It’s been a whirlwind, and while she tries to force herself to slow down and reflect on all that she’s accomplished, the 35-year-old with the “we’re here for a good time, not a long time” ethos admitted it can be a challenge.

“I really try to take it in, but, at the same time, I feel like everything is happening so fast that it is a little challenging,” offered Jasudavicius, who earned Performance of the Night bonuses for her third-round submission wins over Cachoeira and da Silva last year. “Every time I feel like my life is going so crazy, I really try to bring myself back and say, ‘You’re living the best years of your life right now.’ These are the times that when I’m old and gray, and my body is all mangled that I’m gonna miss.

But it’s understandably challenging when the next great opportunity gets presented to you, especially one like this weekend’s bout with Bueno Silva that wasn’t even on Jasudavicius’ radar coming out of her victory over da Silva in Edmonton.

“No, not at all; I thought she was a ‘35er,” she said in regard to a fight with Bueno Silva, who logged five appearances at flyweight before spending her last six outings competing in the bantamweight division, including opening last year facing off with Raquel Pennington for the vacant title. “We actually trained together three years ago at American Top Team, became friends and everything, so when it was offered to me, I was like, ‘I don’t know. I genuinely like her.’ She’s fought for a title before, so obviously beating her would put me in a different stage, and then once I heard the fight was in Saudi Arabia, I was like, ‘Let’s just do it!’

“Life’s about jumping on opportunities, and one thing that I love about her is that she’s a dog, she’s a professional, she’s down; I know she’s gonna come into the Octagon with her best foot forward. I know that both of us can see this as a business thing. We’ll scrap and try to kill each other, and I imagine afterwards we’ll hug and everything will be all good.

Her opponents must feel like that radio dial, especially Cachoeira and da Silva, who were both ultimately swept under by the tidal wave of pressure and non-stop aggressiveness Jasudavicius brought to them more and more as those fights progressed. It’s a feeling the Canadian truly cherishes, and an ability she’s deeply proud of, knowing that it stems from the hours of hard work she’s putting forth in the gym each and every day.

The next step towards that goal is to step in with Bueno Silva on Saturday and extend her winning streak to four.

Asked how she plans on making that happen, Jasudavicius answered in a way that only she can, and the only way she truly knows how.

“We just keep it going,” she said, giggling. “There’s nothing to it, but to do it!”