
When Bruno Silva and Joshua Van, two highly touted flyweights, clash at UFC 316: Dvalishvili vs O’Malley 2, it is bound to be a spectacle. This fight can create waves in the flyweight division,especially with all the bouts soon to come.

Bruno Silva is 4-1 in his last five and has ended the fight early in every single one of those wins.The only blemish in that stretch is a finish at the hands of Manel Kape, who is fighting in what seems to be a title eliminator himself against Brandon Royval at UFC 317. Silva is a very fun fighter who can finish the fight at any moment.

Van is one of the more exciting prospects in the UFC, and more specifically, the flyweight division. There has not been a single Van fight that has disappointed, and his last time out against Rei Tsuruya was exactly that. Van put on a pace that Tsuruya just could not recover from, and he walked away with the win just three months ago.

So far in the UFC, Van is 6-1, with the only loss coming to previously ranked Charles Johnson. Van has been nothing short of dominant during his UFC career thus far, and this fight has the power to thrust him onto everyone’s radar.

When looking at records for active flyweights, Joshua Van is everywhere. The most impressive must be that he is ranked 1st for strikes landed per minute at 8.1! The next closest is at 5.04 and subsequently he is also first for striking differential. A pure striker and one that is leading by example is Van. He is also ranked 4th for active flyweights in bottom position percentage, which is significantly lower than the champion Pantoja, who is ranked 10th!

Van met a sturdy test in Tsuruya, who wanted to wrestle and take Van down, but Van’s quick scrambles and defense stuffed 17 of 21 takedown attempts. This is the adaptation that is being shown by Van on a continual basis, and if he can improve his striking as he seemingly has with his takedown defense, it will be very interesting to see how he fares against the rest of the division.

Both fighters exhibit excellent striking, but Silva is more apt to finish the fight compared to Van. While both men hold active flyweight records, it would be interesting to see Silva test Van’s takedown defense and make the fight ugly. If Silva does not utilize this, Van can stay in his preferred area, which is “The Van Void.” This is the area where Van can hit you, but you can’t hit him, essentially in the range that he creates.

With Van being very good in the boxing range, he must establish the distance early. Van must utilize a stiff jab to dictate the fight. The more this fight gets ugly, the worse it will be for Van. It may be to Van’s benefit that Silva is coming off a KO loss, as he can continually test the chin with multiple shots. Van’s path to victory lies within the range and making the fight aesthetically pleasing. This means long shots and unrivaled footwork that will make it a nightmare for Silva to catch him.