
Recent Dana White’s Contender Series grads, MarQuel Mederos, Quillan Salkilld, and Andreas Gustafsson all scored quality decision wins, while newcomer JooSang Yoo collected a stunning first-round knockout win over Jeka Saragih in his first UFC appearance. Elsewhere, Wang Cong and Waldo Cortes Acosta registered the biggest wins of their respective careers, beating Ariane da Silva and Serghei Spivac, respectively before Azamat Murzakanov returned to action and rolled through Brendson Ribeiro.

And then to wrap things up, Joshua Van delivered a stunning performance in collecting his fourth consecutive victory and seventh UFC win in eight starts, finishing Bruno Silva late in the final round.

In less than two years on the roster, Van has already amassed a 7-1 record, establishing himself as arguably the most exciting up-and-comer in the talent-rich 125-pound weight class. The scary thing is that the native of Myanmar is still improving and nowhere close to his athletic prime.

“The Professional” was patient through the early going of the fight, measuring Ribeiro and making reads on his range and timing. Three minutes into the contest, he left loose with a left hand that just missed, then followed it up soon after with another that landed on Ribeiro’s forehead, causing his legs to go. From there, Murzakanov pounced and pounded out the finish.

Spivac was the more aggressive and effective early, walking down the Dominican Dana White’s Contender Series grad and landing the superior strikes through the opening five minutes. In the second, Cortes Acosta seemed to work back into things, throwing and landing at a great clip while Spivac’s output started to slow. With the fight likely hanging in the balance, the 30-year-old veteran came out of the gates well, pressuring and stinging his foe, only for Cortes Acosta to steady himself and continue chipping away.

When the scorecards were collected and totalled, it was Cortes Acosta that came out victorious, earning a unanimous decision win. It was a competitive, hard-fought battle and the biggest win to date for the ascending Dominican heavyweight, who extended his winning streak to five and his record to 7-1 inside the Octagon.

The Swedish mauler was unrelenting in his pursuit and punishment of Williams, closing the distance immediately to start the fight and staying attached to the American veteran throughout. Gustafsson split him open in the second, and was right back in his grill and on his grind in the third, continuing to drown his more tenured opponent.

The 34-year-old Gustafsson was originally scheduled to compete last weekend, going as far as making weight for his scrapped bout with Trevin Giles, and was the fresher, more imposing man on Saturday. This was an outstanding win for the newcomer, who has now won four straight and profiles as a gnarly challenge for whomever he gets matched up with next.

From the early going, Salkilld controlled the action, mixing his weapons and attacks well, showing a real advantage in the grappling interactions. While Ashmouz had a couple quality lands, the Australian did well to deal with it and respond, never allowing his foe to build enough momentum or get close enough to a finish to change the outcome.

A member of last year’s DWCS graduating class, Salkilld scored a 19-second knockout win in his February debut, and showed this weekend that he can go 15 minutes with a dangerous and powerful hitter that never relented. Just 25 years old, this was a dominant performance for two rounds and a gutsy show of resilience down the stretch by the promising Australian prospect.

After illness forced him out of last weekend’s fight card, Mederos looked at full health and dialled all the way in against Choinski, picking him apart on the feet from the outset. The 28-year-old Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) graduate mixed up his weapons and targets throughout, brutalizing Choinski’s lead leg, putting him on the canvas three times with low kicks, en route to a lopsided win on the scorecards.

Mederos, who now trains at The MMA Lab, looked like a good blend of his new gym and his old gym, Factory X Muay Thai, in this one, showing slickness with increased power and vicious intent to collect the most impressive win of his young UFC career. Now 3-0 in the UFC and riding a nine-fight winning streak, a step up in competition could be in order for Mederos after this kind of performance.