The opening pay-per-view of the 2025 campaign is an outstanding blend of present standouts and future talents that make up the UFC roster.

Headlined by a pair of dynamic championship contests pitting undisputed titleholders against the No. 1 contender in their respective divisions, with a matchup between former champs serving as the featured bout of the evening, the present is solidly represented, with a total of 13 ranked competitors making the walk into the Octagon at the Intuit Dome on Saturday night in Los Angeles.

Holding things down for the future are the three athletes highlighted below: a pair of elite bantamweight prospects and an undefeated flyweight finisher looking to kick of the year by claiming a win over one of those ranked competitors.

This event promises to be an outstanding way to kick off the 2025 pay-per-view slate, and this trio of emerging talents is poised to potentially shine on the prelims and set the stage for the action-packed main card slate.

Here are the Fighters on the Rise for UFC 311.

The unbeaten Nakamura was featured in the 2024 two-part Fighters on the Rise preview after posting a pair of victories inside the Octagon the previous year, but only managed to make one appearance last year, causing him to slip into the background a little as the bantamweight ranks continued churning out competitive fights and promising talents.

But make no mistake about it: the 29-year-old Japanese grappler is the genuine article, and someone that could make a rapid rise through the ranks with the right opportunities and results in 2025.

Now 9-0 as a professional, the former Under-23 freestyle wrestling world champion returns to action this weekend in a competitive bout with Muin Gafarov, a compact and dangerous grappler coming off his first UFC victory.

From the outset, Nakamura has been asking fans and observers to be patient with him, understanding that his transition into MMA is still a work in progress and that he still needs time to develop, as he made his debut in May 2021 and did so without any amateur experience. What he’s shown so far has been extremely promising, as he stormed through the Road to UFC tournament and swept the scorecards in each of his last two wins.

Running his winning streak to double digits would be a great way to kick off the year, and hopefully, by competing on the second card of 2025, it means we’ll get to see much more of Nakamura this year than we did last year.