
Opening with a series of decisions, including Grant Dawson registering the biggest win of his professional career, Bogdan Guskov and Azamat Bekoev turned in back-to-back finishes before Raoni Barcelos and Payton Talbott closed things out with an entertaining battle in the bantamweight division.

Ulanbekov leaned on his grappling throughout the contest, controlling large portions of the opening frame from top position, landing solid shots before finding a similar position, but less success in the back half of the second and third. Carpenter had his moments off his back in the first and on top in the second, but was never able to build enough consistent, significant momentum to truly threaten the Top 15 fixture.

The 24-year-old from Albania showed elements of a complete skill set, mixing his weapons and targets, defending takedowns well, and having positive moments in the grappling interactions as well. Turcios was dogged in his pursuit of his young foe, pressing from the outset and showing greater offensive urgency than he had in any previous outings, but was simply unable to manufacture enough meaningful offense to swing things in his favor. Early in the third, Sopaj stung and busted up Turcios, but the Houston native managed to survive and make it to the final horn.

When the scorecards were tallied, it was Perez that came out ahead, registering her fifth straight UFC victory. The charismatic Argentine is the owner of the longest active winning streak in the division, and should get another opportunity against a Top 10 opponent next time out after out-working the tenured Brazilian on Saturday night in Los Angeles.

“KGD” controlled the grappling entanglements throughout the bout, working back into effective positions in the spare moments when Ferreira attacked there and keeping the Brazilian pinned to the canvas whenever he initiated. Things were more frenetic on the feet, but it was never there for too long, with Dawson quickly working back into the clinch and returning Ferreira to the mat.

That’s now three straight for the American Top Team representative Dawson, and six wins in his last seven appearances. He’s a menacing presence on the mat, having continually improved the efficiency of his game, and should get a chance to re-enter the Top 15 at some point later in the year.

Elekana surprised Guskov early, taking him down and climbing onto his back, locking in a body triangle and staying there, hunting for chokes, for four minutes. But Guskov got free and dominated the final stretch of the first, locking up a choke where Elekana was saved by the horn. He remained aggressive in the second and took the fight to the fading newcomer, punishing him with strikes before clamping onto a choke and drawing out the tap.

Bekoev has been chomping at the bit for a UFC opportunity and made the absolute most of this short-notice fight, pushing his winning streak to seven while advancing his record to 19-3 overall. Middleweight has been electric out of the gates to start 2025 and Bekoev just announced his presence as one to watch going forward.

The 38-year-old Brazilian wisely took Talbott down early and often, advancing positions and threatening with chokes, roughing him up with strikes when the time called for it. While Talbott did well at times to work to his feet and landed some solid strikes when the two opted to stand and trade, Barcelos was always quick to get him back on the canvas.

That’s now consecutive wins over quality prospects for the tenured bantamweight, who moved to 8-4 inside the Octagon with the win. For Talbott, this is a critical learning experience in the early days of his UFC run, but surely not the last we hear of the promising, young fighter.