
The 34-year-old Manchester man has been one of the most criminally underrated and under-appreciated fighters on the roster for the past couple years, largely because he favors technique over flash, performance over talking mess, and had rounded out his winning streak with victories over other divisional stalwarts with a similar makeup in Edson Barboza, Dan Ige, and Josh Emmet.

Pico, on the other hand, was making his promotional debut after a scheduled bout with undefeated Russian contender Movsar Evloev in Abu Dhabi went by the boards. The 28-year-old was one of the most hyped prospects in the history of the sport when he first signed with Bellator, and after some struggles early in his career, Pico had put together a 9-1 run heading into his first UFC appearance, where his only loss came as a result of an injury.

He was the new blood, the ballyhooed arrival set to stamp himself as the No. 1 contender and make a case for a championship opportunity against Alexander Volkanovski.

Honorable Mentions: Elijah Smith, Joseph Morales, Baisangur Susurkaev, Uran Satybaldiev, Yizha, Kyle Daukaus

Elliott was a part of the flyweight division when it was first introduced in the UFC way back in 2012, signed by the promotion a month after the division debuted in Sydney, Australia. He posted a 2-4 record over his first six appearances, fighting a rugged slate where his losses came to a trio of title challengers — John Dodson, Ali Bagautinov, and Joseph Benavidez — and ex-Bellator champ Zach Makovsky, and was released.

He returned as part of the cast of Season 24 of The Ultimate Fighter, where the winner of the tournament would garner a championship opportunity against Demetrious “Mighty Mouse” Johnson. Elliott won the competition and then gave Johnson one of the more challenging fights of his lengthy reign, and he’s been a fixture in the Top 15 ever since.

Those that follow the sport closely know that Elliott has dealt with some personal losses and difficult situations during the last handful of years, including the passing of Robert Follis, and his bout against Asakura was his first in 20 months after he pressed pause on his career to spend serious time with his daughter.

So for him to come back, awkward as ever inside the Octagon, and turn in a tremendous performance against a heralded standout who had fought for the title in his promotional debut eight months earlier and finish him with a slick mounted guillotine, you just have to give it up to him. It was one of those efforts that instantly reminded you that Elliott is a nightmare assignment for anyone in the division and capable of being a serious threat on his best days.

The Missouri native has now won consecutive contests by submission, four of his last five, and six of his last eight, with his losses coming against Top 10 opposition at the time.

Honorable Mentions: Austin Bashi vs John Yannis, Tatsuro Taira vs HyunSung Park, Anthony Hernandez vs Roman Dolidze, Morales vs Alibi Idiris, Susurkaev vs Eric Nolan, Satybaldiev vs Diyar Nurgozhay

Slams like this are devastating, and like everyone else, I’m thankful that Kazama is okay, but it’s the rarity and severity of them that make them stand out when they do occur. It’s almost like watching a car crash happen in slow motion — you understand the setup and see where things are going, recognize how it’s going to unfold, and then BOOM! CRASH!

With just under a minute remaining in the opening round, Kazama tried to lock up a triangle from the bottom. As soon as it was close, Smith gathered him and hoisted him aloft, adjusting his body to bring his Japanese foe thundering to the canvas with considerable impact and force. The second he began to elevate him, you knew how it was going to end up, and you could not look away.

This was Smith’s second win already this year and the kind of effort that stamps the recent Dana White’s Contender Series grad as a serious long-range prospect in the bantamweight division.

Honorable Mentions: Rinya Nakamura vs Nathan Fletcher, Uros Medic vs Gilbert Urbina, Joselyne Edwards vs Priscila Cachoeira, Christian Leroy Duncan vs Eryk Anders, Carlos Prates vs Geoff Neal, Murphy vs Aaron Pico, Yizha vs Westin Wilson, Daukaus vs Michel Pereira, Charles Johnson vs Lone’er Kavanagh

Duncan earned the decision win — his third straight victory and fifth in six fights since graduating from Dana White’s Contender Series in 2022 — but Rebecki lost no ground in the loaded and competitive lightweight division.