
Daniil Donchenko kicked things off by storming through Rodrigo Sezinando in the first round to win the Ultimate Fighter Season 33 welterweight tournament before Montse Rendon edged out 19-year-old Alice Pereira in her promotional debut. Flyweights Alden Coria and Jesus Aguilar earned quality wins on either side of a middleweight bout between Zachary Reese and Sedriques Dumas that ended in a no contest as a result of an accidental low blow.

The next two fights played out fairly similar to one another, with Tatiana Suarez surviving a late push to win her bout against fellow title challenger Amanda Lemos, while Joaquim Silva rallied to land on the happy side of the split decision verdict in his clash with Claudio Puelles. And in the final bout of the early slate, Dusko Todorovic wrapped things up by wrapping up a rear-naked choke finish over Jose Daniel Medina.

Dusko Todorovic got himself back into the win column to close out the early slate, submitting Jose Daniel Medina in the waning moments of the first round.

The bruising middleweights were given the final place on the prelims because of their all-action approaches, and Todorovic made sure to validate the opportunity.  After busting up Medina early in the contest, the Serbian dragged his fellow DWCS graduate to the canvas, where he quickly took his back, sunk in the choke, and squeezed out the finish.

After opening his career with 10 consecutive victories, Saturday’s win was the first in four fights for Todorovic and only his fourth in 10 UFC appearances to date. It was a statement win in a critical moment, and hopefully can serve as a catalyst for continued success for “Thunder” going forward.

Returning lightweights Joaquim Silva and Claudio Puelles clashed in a dogged back-and-forth in the penultimate preliminary card fight of the evening.

Puelles wrestled well in the opening round and early part of the second, putting Silva on the canvas and controlling him, but failed to find submission openings or do much damage. Silva stung the Peruvian with a front kick to the midsection in the second and dove on a guillotine choke in the final seconds of the second. Puelles wrestled well for much of the round and staggered Silva at one point, only for the Brazilian to hurt him down the stretch as he tried to end things before the final horn.

The late rally was enough to earn Silva the victory on the scorecards, with two of the three officials awarding him the third round and the win. This was a gutsy comeback win for “Netto BJJ,” who picked up his first win since the close of 2023 while extending his record to 7-5 inside the Octagon.

Dana White’s Contender Series grads Jesus Aguilar and Luis Gurule engaged in a thoroughly entertaining flyweight battle midway through the Noche UFC prelims in San Antonio.

Aguilar came out of the gates throwing everything he could muster at Gurule, looking to take him out with every shot while wading into the fray with his hands down quite frequently. Gurule had solid moments of his own, and the two ran fairly level in the second before Aguilar staggered the recent Contender Series grid in the third, with the two men trading quality shots right to the final horn.

When the tens and nines were tallied, it was Aguilar that came out ahead, registering his fourth win in six UFC appearances, while handing Gurule his second consecutive defeat. A member of the DWCS Class of ’22, Aguilar remains an entertaining, all-action member of the flyweight ranks and someone who should continue to get quality opportunities going forward.

The middleweight bout between Zachary Reese and Sedriques Dumas was waved off less than a minute into the contest after Dumas was rendered unable to continue following a thudding, accidental low blow.

Fighting in opposite stances, Reese fired off a left kick that hit Dumas below the waist with audible force, sending the Floridian to the canvas in understandable agony. Four minutes into his five-minute recovery period, Dumas said he was unable to continue and the bout was instantly waved off.

Alden Coria made the most of his short-notice UFC debut on Saturday, registering a third-round stoppage win over Alessandro Costa.

A teammate of flyweight contender Joshua Van, Coria looked excellent from the start, utilizing feints and stance switches to get the better of things in the first round. He continued thriving in the second before momentarily having his back taken, only to reverse the position and finish the round in top position. Early in the third, with Costa clearly compromised due to an unknown lower extremity injury, Coria pressed forward and put the Brazilian away with a series of blows along the fence.

This was a huge performance for Coria, who pushed his unbeaten streak to five with his debut win. With good size for the division, a great team behind him, and a quality resume from the regional circuit, “Cobra” could very well be the next Houston native to eventually emerge as a contender in the 125-pound weight class.

Just 24 years old and now riding a five-fight winning streak, Donchenko is an intriguing new addition to the 170-pound weight class. He’s an all-action fighter with a desire to do damage, and efforts like this should quickly make him a fan favorite.