
Former title challengers Tatiana Suarez and Amanda Lemos clashed in a gruelling, grappling-heavy battle that went the full three rounds.

Throughout the contest, Suarez initiated the action, closing the distance and forcing Lemos to grapple, controlling her along the fence for extended periods and depositing her to the canvas multiple times. Lemos largely defended well and chased a ninja choke at the close of the second before trying to find a finishing blow in the final minute of the fight.

When the scorecards were collected and totalled, it was Suarez that came away with the victory, getting herself back into the win column after her loss to champion Zhang Weili earlier this year. It’s a solid win for the perennial contender, who will surely be paying close attention to the upcoming title fight between Mackenzie Dern and Virna Jandiroba.

Aguilar came out of the gates throwing everything he could muster at Gurule, looking to take him out with every shot while wading into the fray with his hands down quite frequently. Gurule had solid moments of his own, and the two ran fairly level in the second before Aguilar staggered the recent Contender Series grid in the third, with the two men trading quality shots right to the final horn.

When the tens and nines were tallied, it was Aguilar that came out ahead, registering his fourth win in six UFC appearances, while handing Gurule his second consecutive defeat. A member of the DWCS Class of ’22, Aguilar remains an entertaining, all-action member of the flyweight ranks and someone who should continue to get quality opportunities going forward.

Montse Rendon kicked off the night in successful fashion for Mexican athletes at Noche UFC, earning a unanimous decision win over newcomer Alice Pereira.

Competing for the first time in 18 months, the 36-year-old Rendon pressured throughout, looking to bring the fight to her debuting 19-year-old foe. After a pedestrian first round, Rendon made things grimy in the second, closing the frame on Pereira’s back, searching for a choke before the final frame returned to being a low-output, movement heavy affair until the final few moments.

The judges were tasked with determining the victor and when the scorecards were collected and totalled, it was Rendon that came out ahead, landing on the happy side of the split decision verdict. That’s now two wins in three UFC starts for Rendon, while Pereira is handed the first setback of her young career.