
“It was good because it developed a really high expectation of what my work ethic should be, but I think I was scratching the surface on everything. If you’re focused on too much, you’re really not focused on anything.

“Now, I’ll train once a day, but I’m gonna get as deep, as quality of work as I can,” continued the thoughtful lightweight, who enters Saturday’s contest in Kansas City on a two-fight winning streak. "I don’t need to be doing crazy-long combinations with slips, rolls, and pulls; let me just master my jab, because even within this one technique, there’s a million different details and intricacies.

“So it’s just being relentlessly focused,” he added. “I think it’s Leonardo Da Vinci that has a quote that is something like, ‘Success lies in the relentless execution of the basics’ or something like that, and I feel like it’s so true.”

“I needed a change, and the biggest thing was my body,” began Elder, explaining the reasoning behind moving to the magnetic center of the fight world. “I was talking earlier about living in that ‘hustle culture’ for so long that I just always thought more was better. I lived and died by this hard work mentality of being the hardest working in the room at all times, and a lot of time after training, I’d be going and trying to lift weights or do sprints on the treadmill because I thought hard work was going to be making me better.

“It did in some ways, and also hindered me a lot in other ways. The biggest thing with moving out here was to change things up and prioritize getting as healthy as possible. With the access to the (UFC Performance Institute) — the PTs, getting treatment, being around all the UFC stuff, having food available — I thought it was gonna be a good change of pace, and I’d be able to get some different looks training-wise.

“Truthfully, the biggest thing was that I was looking to be in control of my training schedule,” he continued, leaning back in his chair as he started explaining the root cause of his change of address. “I was so beat up that there were times where I was like, ‘I need to listen to my body.’

“If I trained hard one day, woke up and my back was killing me, it’s not a good idea to even go in and ‘go light’ because it almost never ends up going light. You’re gonna go in there and starting ripping some shots, somebody’s gonna need a partner and you’re like, ‘All right, I’ll go,’ and when I leave, my back is twice as bad as it was before.”

“Legitimately, as stupid as this may be, there have been plenty of days where I’ve had a couple of good, hard days in a row and felt beat up, and I was like, ‘Today’s a yoga day. I’m gonna watch tape, I’m gonna study.’ On days when I’m not training, I have plenty of stuff to do. I can go back and watch every single thing that I’ve been doing, see where I’m messing stuff up, see what I need to be improving.”

He again smiled and shook his head, understanding there is nothing stupid about listening to his body and that studying film and reviewing the copious amounts of notes he takes from each session are just as integral to his success — if not more so — than pushing himself physically at all times.

“Now I know that when I feel like ‘I need to take today off; I need to do some yoga or some stretching or some breath work or all of the above,’ I’ll go into training the next day with a well thought out plan of what I need to do in order to get better.”

“I try to live my life in a fight camp as much as I possibly can, but I think the difficult part is that you almost forget what it’s all like. There are so many steps in the preparation, and it’s like, ‘I haven’t gotten these reps very often.’ I’m only getting one rep a year, and it’s hard to work like that, but, at the same time, I’m not really worried about it at all. I think God’s got his hands all over it. I think God was saving my opportunity for this time, but it’s also given me so much more time to improve, which I think is needed.

That assessment isn’t one that you commonly hear from aspiring competitors, as most envision themselves as being ready to challenge for championship gold as soon as they get a couple regional wins under their belt.

“Whatever happens happens — I’m leaving that up to God — but I am truly going to put in every ounce of my being, all the work I can to prepare for this. That way I can be confident and comfortable however things shake out.”

“So I’m just truly focused on my progression as a man; to be the greatest version of myself to protect and provide for my loved ones as much as possible.”