Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Kyte: And what about the challenger?

Chartier: I think you have to use a “first and third” strategy, knowing that your first is a throwaway.

When a counter-striker doesn’t know when you’re committing, they start guessing when to go. If you go big every time, they’re going to get your timing down and launch you, so I think it has to be that “first and third” where that first is stuff just to pull the counters out.

It’s been there throughout at 115 pounds, and she’s always looked like the bigger, stronger person, but if she doesn’t have that physicality here, what can she lean on to have success?

Kyte: Okay, what’s the path to victory for each of them?

Take advantage to win every exchange, win every round. Win moments; don’t be too stuck on the game plan.

Kyte: Take what you’re given and see what comes of it.

Kyte: I think experience plays a part in it —you can only understand about winning moments in fights and how important those moments are by being in fights, but understanding that you can do the things you do without worrying about all the stuff too many people get sucked into is different.

Kyte: Okay, so what’s the X-factor here?

I agree —it’ll be interesting.

For me, I’m always, always curious in situations like this where fighters are a little older and maybe towards the end, at what point do we start to see a little slippage? At what point does it start to creep in there?

Chartier: You see it with lots of people —there is that one fight where they start to slip a little, and then it just goes from there.

Kyte: I think these are two people who can avoid it for longer than most because they’re that talented and so mentally strong in their belief and drive, but at some point, stuff just starts to erode a little naturally.

Kyte: How much does weight cutting impact that?

Chartier: I don’t think there is any real way of knowing. What I can say is that the times I was hurt in my career were after bad weight cuts.

It’s an opinion-based thing, and it can go both ways: you cut too much weight, so you’re gonna have a vulnerable chin, but also, if you have a better chin, but you’re up a weight class, how do you wear those shots? I don’t know, but I’d be interested to see more studies on that kind of stuff.

Kyte: I’m really interested to see how she looks because she’s someone that I have always thought could go up and fit into the division well, from a physical standpoint.

It’s gonna be a really good fight… I think.

Thanks for doing this.