
“I've been in this sport a long time, and it's just a statement of, ‘I'm still here, and I'm still dangerous.’

“Through the ups and downs, it's just my love for the sport. I'm a lifetime martial artist. I’ve still got it in me. I want to be the best in the world. I am one of the best in the world.”

“I think she's a tough opponent, but I fought the best of the best. I know I'm bringing in the experience, the technique and just overall willpower over her. Every fight is a new opportunity for both fighters. It doesn't really matter their records, but going in there Saturday night, I'm very confident in my skills and overall, that I'm a better fighter.”

“I'm still dangerous. I'm always evolving. I think I'm just getting better and stronger as I go. But, yeah, I'd love to be ranked in the top 10.

“I think the rankings are kind of skewed at this point. I'm ranked behind fighters that I've beat before, but I just want to keep my name in the game, and I want to continue to rise in the rankings.”

“I don't need any redemption in those split decisions, but should I be given the opportunity, of course, I'll take them,” she admitted.

“It’s only gonna get me closer to the belt, since they are ranked above me. But, at this point, anything that's getting me closer is formidable.”

Pennington is full of confidence that she can step into the Octagon and get the victory on Saturday. That confidence is backed up by the determination of a fighter who refuses to quit, and someone who, as a new mom, has someone to be an example to. That makes for a dangerous, focused fighter.

“I recently said that this fight is for every version of myself that didn't give up, and that's true,” she explained.

“I've been in the sport for a very long time. I’ve been with UFC for 11 years now [and] had my ups and downs. I faced the best of the best. But, at certain points, there were times when I did want to give up. But that's not me.

“I am a lifelong martial artist, like I said, and this is what I love to do, and I'm going to do it until I stop loving doing it, or I'm ready to have another child, to be honest with you. But, at this point, I'm just ready to continue to be here to show my daughter how much resilience and strength her mom has.”