Tecia Pennington may be 17 fights into her UFC career, but her competitive fire is burning as bright as ever.

Pennington has been a part of the UFC ever since the inception of the women’s strawweight division through the 20th season of The Ultimate Fighter, and has been a near-constant in the UFC’s 115-pound division.

The only time away from the Octagon came when she stepped away from active competition to become a mother in 2023. But she returned to action last year and, after being edged by Tabatha Ricci via split-decision, the “Tiny Tornado” bounced back into form with a unanimous decision win over former two-time UFC strawweight champion Carla Esparza at UFC 307 last October.

It was a victory that proved to herself and the watching world that, as the phrase goes, she’s still got it.

“It meant everything to me,” she admitted.

On Saturday night at the UFC APEX, Pennington takes on 15th-ranked Luana Pinheiro in a matchup that Pennington sees as an opportunity to lay the groundwork for another run up the 115-pound ladder.

Pennington enters her bout with Pinheiro this weekend with her opposite number in a tough run of form. The Brazilian burst into the UFC off an impressive showing on Dana White’s Contender Series and reeled off three straight wins. But her last three outings all ended in defeat as she lost fights to Amanda Ribas, Angela Hill, and Gillian Robertson.

It means that Pinheiro heads into Saturday night’s bout on a three-fight skid, and Pennington admitted that she’s been in a similar spot herself and will have a fair idea of how her opponent might be feeling heading into the bout. But, despite that shared experience, she has no intention of offering any sympathy while the fight is ongoing.

“I've had my own rough patches in the UFC, so, for me, it was more motivation to get back in there to showcase my skills,” she explained.

“I definitely know that I'm the most talented and experienced fighter she's ever fought, so I know going in there, she's gonna have some nerves. But with every fight, you have nerves and excitement. I just know that I'm the better athlete, and my hand's gonna be raised.”

Pennington enters the weekend ranked 13th in the division, and with Pinheiro listed two spots below her on the 115-pound list, she knows she’ll have to secure victory in order to secure fights with contenders ranked above her.

But for the “Tiny Tornado,” the rankings offer a guide to where she wants to be, but aren’t the end-all, be-all. Instead, she’s focusing on her goal of simply reaching the top of the division.

“A win this weekend is definitely going to solidify that I'm still here in the division,” she stated.

That rise could potentially see her engage in a rematch or two, with Pennington already having faced five of the strawweight top 12 earlier in her career. Her last two losses, to top 10 contenders Mackenzie Dern and Tabatha Ricci, both came via split decision and while she admits there isn’t a burning desire to get those wins back, Pennington said she’d be ready to face anyone ranked ahead of her in her quest to reach the top.