When dominant champions from other organizations join the UFC, there’s always a degree of excitement and anticipation as fans look to see if the athlete can carry their form onto the sport’s biggest stage.

Put simply, Pitbull is the greatest fighter to have competed under the banner of Bellator MMA – the longtime promotion that ceased operations early this year. His list of records for the promotion is impressive, to say the least.

Pitbull is a four-time Bellator world champion, having captured the featherweight crown three times and the lightweight title once. He’s registered nine successful title defenses, and holds the now-unbreakable records for the most fights, most wins, most title fights, and most finishes in the promotion’s history, plus a host of featherweight-specific records.

After compiling a perfect 12-0 record on the regional scene in Brazil, Pitbull joined Bellator in 2010 and entered their featherweight tournament, where he won his way through to the final, only to lose out by split decision.

It earned him a shot at the Bellator featherweight title, but once again, a split-decision verdict against Pat Curran left him frustrated as he missed out again.

The Brazilian claimed tournament victory once again in 2013, and this time turned that momentum into title success as he defeated Curran in their featherweight title rematch to capture the Bellator 145-pound crown.

With the Bellator featherweight title around his waist, Pitbull quickly established himself as a dominant champion as he submitted Daniel Straus, then knocked out Germany’s Daniel Weichel to register back-to-back finishes in his first two title defenses.

Pitbull was edged by Straus in their rematch in November 2015, but he avenged that defeat 17 months later when he submitted Straus in the second round to recapture the belt once again.

After defeating rising Hungarian star Adam Borics to register another defense of

The Brazilian exudes an understated confidence in his abilities, backed up by a career that has proven, time after time, that he has the big-game temperament of a decorated champion.

And, whenever an obstacle arrives to derail his momentum, he has always bounced back. Each time he lost his featherweight title, he bounced back and defeated the man who dethroned him to recapture the crown once again. It’s the sort of stat that proves that Pitbull is a true fighting champion.

Now, at 37 years of age, blessed with a career packed with experience of being the hunted, Pitbull will relish the task of being the hunter once again as he sets his sights on the top of the UFC’s 145-pound division.

Throughout Pitbull’s career, he was the subject of one big fantasy matchmaking question. How would the undeniably brilliant Brazilian fare against the UFC’s featherweight elite?