
With Patricio Freire, known to the MMA world as Patricio Pitbull, that anticipation is through the roof.

At 37 years of age, and with 43 career fights to his name, Pitbull is anything but a rookie as he prepares to make his UFC debut. Instead, he’s a bonafide world champion who has proved himself against world-class opposition for the past decade.

Pitbull returned for another tilt at tournament glory the following year, and the second time was the charm, as he defeated Georgi Karakhanyan, Wilson Reis and Daniel Straus to capture the tournament crown.

From 2017 to the summer of 2021, Pitbull was untouchable. After defeating Straus to reclaim the title, he defended the championship five times and became a simultaneous two-division champion when he TKO’d Michael Chandler in just 61 seconds in May 2019.

Despite holding championships at 145 and 155 pounds, featherweight remained Pitbull’s focus, with the latter two title defenses coming in Bellator’s featherweight Grand Prix. But, after reaching the final, Pitbull’s four-year reign hit the buffers when he was submitted by A.J. McKee.

Just as he did with Straus earlier in his career, Pitbull immediately put things right in the rematch as he outpointed McKee to reclaim the title and become the first fighter in the promotion’s history to have four separate championship reigns.

A trip to Saitama, Japan saw him defeat Rizin FF star Kleber Koike in a promotion versus promotion event on New Year’s Eve in 2022, while a move down to bantamweight to claim a third world title ended proved a bridge too far as he was outworked by Sergio Pettis in June 2023. Then a move up to lightweight saw him knocked out for only the second time in his career by Japanese kickboxing star Chihiro Suzuki.

That prompted Pitbull to return to championship duty, and a victory over Canada’s Jeremy Kennedy added a final title defense to his record before his fighting career took an unplanned one-year hiatus before he gained the contractual release needed to eventually join the UFC.

Now, as he prepares to take on Yair Rodriguez at UFC 314, we’re going to find out.