Kevin Vallejos isn’t exactly sure why so many people are exceptionally high on his prospects as a member of the UFC featherweight division, struggling to recognize what it is that has the promotion and those that cover the sport so eager to see him continue making the walk to the Octagon.

"I’m truly blessed, blessed by God for these opportunities,” Vallejos said on Wednesday afternoon through a translator when asked about his standing as one of the most highly regarded young talents on the roster. “Sometimes I don’t understand what they see in me to give me all these opportunities. Right now, I’m very happy, very thankful to all the people that have given me help and support, and very thankful for the UFC.”

While this weekend’s matchup with Silva is highly anticipated by fight fans eager to get another look at Vallejos inside the Octagon and opposite someone with a little more top-level experience, for the talented up-and-comer who trains in Brazil under UFC veteran Lucas Martins, Saturday is all about sharing a proud moment with the rest of the company’s Argentinian contingent.

“It’s amazing that everybody is gonna be here,” began Vallejos, who will compete alongside compatriot Esteban Ribovics, who will have Argentinian welterweight Francisco Prado in his corner, with surging bantamweight Ailin Perez expected to be in attendance and the trailblazer for this next generation of talent, Santiago Ponzinibbio, poised to call the event for the UFC’s Spanish language broadcast.

“We were talking about this recently, that back in the day, Santiago and “Ninja” (Guido Cannetti) didn’t talk to each other when they started, but now, we’re all friends, we all share experiences, share moments. The fact that Esteban is gonna be fighting, myself as well, and then with what Esteban has been doing, what I can do, Ailin has been winning, and the performances of Francisco and Santiago, I think this is the time for the UFC to come back to Argentina!

“I’m very proud,” he continued, the smile widening on his face. “Don’t forget: I’m a fan, so I was a fan of Santiago and I followed him, and Ninja, and Esteban, Francisco, Ailin. Above all, I’m a fan, so I’m very proud and very happy that all of us are able to represent Argentina and represent the flag together.”

Vallejos admitted that he didn’t know much about Silva before accepting the fight and acknowledged there isn’t a great deal of secondary material out there about his fellow Contender Series grad (Class of ’23), as the Cub Swanson protege opts to maintain a pretty low profile.

“In form of a rival, I don’t have a name I would say — I would be willing to fight anybody; whoever the promotion gives me,” said Vallejos. “Whether it’s someone that is out of the rankings or if it’s in the rankings, it’s even better, but I’m thinking Rio would be a good call because I’m already training in Brazil.

“We’ll find a place, and listen: I’ve got that fat boy mentality, Esteban has got that fat boy mentality, Francisco as well. We eat, we can put some stuff down, so we’ll find a place and we’re gonna have a nice celebration.”