
It’s not a case of false modesty from the 23-year-old Argentine, who steps in against Danny Silva on Saturday night. He’s authentically unsure why so many believe he has a tremendous future in the sport, though observers all seem to be in lockstep when it comes to their assessments of his talent and their reasons for being excited.

Vallejos first emerged on the radar for UFC fans during Season 7 of Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) as an undefeated 21-year-old sporting an 11-0 record. While he dropped a decision in his first appearance on the annual talent-search series, “El Chino” gave a very good account of himself before returning to the Samurai Fight House promotion and registering another two stoppage wins and successful defenses of his featherweight title.

He returned to Las Vegas last fall, blew through Cam Teague to earn a contract, and then made a splash in his promotional debut earlier this year, stopping South Korean veteran SeungWoo Choi in the first round to push his record to 15-1 overall. On top of all that, his one and only loss has aged exceptionally well.

“The starting reaction to watching Jean Silva fight was that I got pissed off because that’s my place, but now that’s no longer and I see it for what it is,” he said with a laugh, discussing the unbridled success of the Fighting Nerds representative and only person to get the better of him to this point in his career. “Look at the results he’s had, look at what he’s doing, and we keep in touch. We’ve crossed paths, kept in touch with messages, and he’s a really good person.

“Also, I fought three rounds and hurt the man,” Vallejos added. “Look at his past fights: he’s one fight away from going for the title and no one has touched him.”

Should he emerge victorious this weekend, Vallejos hopes to make one more appearance before year’s end, and though he doesn’t have a specific opponent in mind, he does have a date and location.

Before that can happen, the emerging featherweight has to get through Silva, and then, provided things for well for Ribovics on Saturday, as well, he’ll have to get through the feast that he and his compatriots are sure to find.

“If you really want the experience of having a true asado, you need to have a UFC in Argentina,” he stated emphatically, doubling down on his call for the UFC to return to his home nation. “As I said before, we’re all friends, we all talk to each other, so the opportunity to celebrate a victory with all of us together…