
And after that work is done in the gym in Sao Paulo, the squad has proven how good they are in the Octagon. In 2024 alone, the team saw Caio Borralho, Carlos Prates, Jean Silva and Mauricio Ruffy win, win and win some more. This week, Sucupira is in Sydney with surging Bruna Brasil, eager to prove that the good times are just starting. In short, it’s a good time to be a nerd, and all the success proves that this isn’t a gimmick. It’s the real deal, something Sucupira knew the moment he proposed the name to the team.

“I think the first reaction of a lot of people was, ‘What is that? They’re real fighters.’ But the first guy who said that's a good idea was Caio Borralho. That gave me strength because our top guy really liked the name, and he was a nerd. (Laughs) He was a chemistry teacher in the school, and he was really a nerd. And he fights like a nerd. So we are not telling a story that is not true. We really live this. We are truly nerds of the sport. We study more than the other guys, we are more calm, we are relaxed, and we are polite. So I think we are telling a story that we really live this. I think when people realized that we are really nerds and everybody is winning their fights, people started to like the name.”

At this point, Sucupira estimates that there are 50 to 60 fighters on the team, making time a valuable and scarce commodity. As mentioned, he’s in Australia this week after visiting Saudi Arabia last week for Mayra Bueno Silva’s bout against Jasmine Jasudavicius. Then it’s back home until the next fight, and when you add in that the 45-year-old and his wife are expecting a baby boy, that’s a lot. But he’s not about to take his foot off the gas because what he conceived is working.

It's a fascinating look into the operation of one of the sport’s most innovative minds, and if Sucupira has his way, The Fighting Nerds won’t just be representing Sao Paulo, but all of Brazil

“What I'm trying to make in Brazil is to have our national squad be The Fighting Nerds,” he said. “So when you think MMA, I want the guys to say, ‘Oh, I'm almost reaching the top. so I'm trying to get in The Fighting Nerds.’ Almost like we are the national squad of MMA. The main thing is, I'm treating my team as a company, not as a team. If you think about an NFL team or an NBA team, first of all, it's a big company. MMA teams, usually they’re not. So I'm really focused on that, in making The Fighting Nerds to be the biggest company among the MMA teams.”

“I think life is about expansion, so I'll never get tired of that,” he said. “I will always be trying to expand. And 2024 was the biggest expansion of my life. And the thing is, for the first time in my life, I'm starting a year that people are expecting more from me. Everybody is expecting so many big things from The Fighting Nerds. They are saying that we are the future of MMA, and I agree with that. I can take that pressure and, more than that, I know that it's time for the team to have a UFC belt, so we won't run away from that pressure, and we are getting ready for that. I think the belt is not gained in a fight; it's a whole process. Caio Borralho is ready to take that road. I think he's one or two fights away from that and he knows that. Caio was talking since his first fight in the Contender Series that he will be a champion in 2025. So he's saying that this year he would be a champion since 2021. We've been planning for that, and we've been preparing ourselves to be here. This year we're going to have our first UFC belt.”