
“It’s the happiest day of my life,” Silva told UFC.com through a translator. “It’s the fact that I get to do whatever I want. I can go in there, and I can somersault. I can slap a guy in the face. I can do whatever. I got the clear to do whatever. I get to do what I love, and that is the happiest day of my life because I can let the dogs out. I love doing it.”

Silva is the first Fighting Nerd to make multiple appearances in 2025, following his stunning knockout win over Melsik Baghdasaryan in February at UFC Fight Night: Cejudo vs Song. After that win, he called out Mitchell, and things have only become more heated since.

In the ensuing month, the two traded jabs over social media, and when UFC.com asked Silva how he really felt about his opponent, he said he “pleads the fifth.” He hopes Mitchell doesn’t mean everything he’s been saying about him ahead of the fight, but he is relishing the shine their matchup is getting.

“If there is a hero, that hero is Jean ‘The Lord’ Silva,” he said. “I am so happy.”

Regardless, Silva hopes he can keep the team’s momentum rolling after a breakout 2024. It seems like the Nerds build off each other’s successes in specular fashion, a sentiment Silva echoes.

“We elevate each other so the next star shines brighter and brightest of them all,” Silva said. You have mine, then Ruffy, then Prates, who was supposed to be here, but now he’s got a main event coming up.

He compares life in the UFC to owning a Ferrari — the very act of owning and driving a Ferrari is already a blessing, but he understands the upkeep is as important. Metaphorically speaking, training and fighting is the upkeep, and he is eager to rev the engines in style on April 12.

“I don’t think — (I know) it is going to happen,” he said. “I think people are going to be barking. I got people to bark in all my interviews. It is so surreal that I have people barking, and I hope he doesn’t give in and succumb in the first round because I’d really like to have some fun with this.”