
Christian Leroy Duncan kicks things off by stopping Eryk Anders, starting the finishing sequence with a beautiful spinning back elbow before getting him out of there soon after. Each of the next four bouts went the distance, with Jean Matsumoto and Andre Fili landing on the happy side of split decision verdicts and Iasmin Lucindo and Steve Erceg registering unanimous decision triumphs.

And then in the main event, Anthony Hernandez wore out and ultimately finished Roman Dolidze, battering the burly Georgian for nearly four full rounds before grabbing onto a no-hooks rear-naked choke and squeezing out the tap.

Anthony Hernandez mugged Roman Dolidze to close out Saturday’s fight card at the UFC APEX, using his constant pressure and menacing pace to torment and finish the Georgian middleweight.

This was “Fluffy” at his absolute best, taking the fight to Dolidze every second, chipping away with small shots until he could land bigger shots and truly punish his opponent. The longer the fight went, the more Hernandez dominated, repeatedly leaving Dolidze in a tired heap on the canvas and calling him back into the fray.

Late in the fourth round, Hernandez opened up with knees as Dolidze was along the fence, with the surging Californian opting to just latch onto his neck and squeeze out a finish as he dragged Dolidze back to his feet. Just a brilliant performance from the emerging middleweight contender, who has now won eight straight as he continues his march towards the top of the division.

Steve Erceg had to work hard and navigate some tricky moments, but the former title challenger finally got himself back into the win column with a well-earned victory over game late replacement Ode’ Osbourne.

Osbourne clipped Erceg early in the contest, his speed advantage creating scoring opportunities for the Dana White’s Contender Series grad. But Erceg recovered and had some moments of his own, then seemingly got the better of the things in the second to draw level, with the Australian turning to his grappling to nullify Osbourne’s striking in the back half of the final frame.

After winning three fights in his first eight months on the roster, this was Erceg’s first win in four fights, halting a three-fight slide that began in his championship bout against Alexandre Pantoja and extended through his February loss to Brandon Moreno. This was a settling win for the Top 10 talent and an outstanding performance from Osbourne under the circumstances.

Andre Fili and Christian Rodriguez engaged in the kind of back-and-forth, give-and-get battle most expected when this featherweight pairing was first announced.

Fili got the better of things in the opening stanza, landing a pair of sharp counters that put Rodriguez on shaky legs. “CeeRod” had more success in the second, working to close the distance and landing with a little more sharpness, though Fili continued to land as well. Just when Rodriguez started to gather momentum in the third, Fili timed level changes that allowed him to shift into his wrestling, neutralizing his foe’s offensive output and burning precious time off the clock.

The judges were called upon to render a verdict for the second straight fight, and once again, they were unanimous in how they saw things, with two of the three awarding Fili the victory. It’s a return to the win column for the new dad, who remains a vital figure in the featherweight ecosystem.

Jean Matsumoto and Miles Johns paired off in a competitive, hard-fought bantamweight tussle early on the main card where the stock of both men rose after 15 minutes.

Johns came out strong, landing well and scoring a quality takedown against the Brazilian prospect. But as the fight progressed, Matsumoto started to work his way into the fight and seize control, maintaining a steady pace and landing consistent offense as the minutes piled up. Johns remained game and continued trying to find a home for something heavy, but Matsumoto did well to keep him from truly clawing back into things.

When the tens and nines were tallied, it was Matsumoto that came out ahead, earning his third UFC victory while getting himself back into the win column after suffering the first loss of his career earlier this year. It was a solid veteran effort from Johns as well, who cemented his standing as a tough out in the Second 15 of the 135-pound weight class in defeat.

Christian Leroy Duncan finally delivered the kind of performance that made him a highly regarded prospect coming out of Cage Warriors, finishing Eryk Anders with a series of blows after dazing him with a beautiful spinning elbow.

Duncan opened the fight with a pair of fouls before Anders crashed forward in an effort to avoid the rangy Brit’s attacks in space. After Duncan worked free from the fence, he landed a series of quick inside low kicks before spinning and planting his elbow in Anders’ mush, sending him staggering backwards. From there, he pounced, chasing down the finish.

This was the Christian Leroy Duncan everyone was waiting on when he transitioned to the UFC a few years back. He’s clearly settling in and starting to show his top-end talents, and still has the potential to emerge as a dark horse in the middleweight division in the not too distant future.

Julius Walker survived a late push by Raffael Cerqueira in the final preliminary card bout of the evening, collecting his first UFC victory in the process.

“Juicebox” played to his strength against his Brazilian foe, repeatedly dragging Cerqueira to the canvas and controlling the action in the grappling interactions. Cerqueira clipped Walker in the opening seconds of the third and put him on rubber legs a second time a minute later, but wasn’t able to capitalize, as Walker again wrestled him to the ground, grinding out the final two minutes of this exhaustive light heavyweight battle.

All three judges scored the fight in favor of Walker, who turned his second appearance under the UFC banner into his first triumph inside the octagon. Walker has now been involved in a pair of chaotic, captivating fights to begin his UFC tenure, and should remain a fun, young fighter to watch in the light heavyweight division.

Elijah Smith finished Toshiomi Kazama with the slam “Rampage” Jackson used to finish Ricardo Arona back in Pride.

The first-year bantamweight took the fight to Kazama straight away, catching the Road to UFC finalist with a flying knee seconds into the fight. As the duo worked through positions in the canvas — Kazama chasing submissions, Smith happily defending and smashing home punishment — the Japanese fighter attacked a triangle choke. Smith elevated him into the air and brought him forcibly to the canvas, putting him out with a WWE-style powerbomb.

Smith has now earned a pair of wins to kick off his UFC career, extending his winning streak to seven with the hellacious finish. The 22-year-old has a bright future, and it’s going to be thrilling to watch him continue to grow, develop, and thrive.

Even though he got dropped right out of the chute, Uros Medic recovered and returned the favor to Gilbert Urbina quickly, collecting a walk-off knockout finish a minute into the fight.

Urbina put a right hand on Medic’s jaw in the very first exchange, putting the Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) graduate on his backside in the center of the Octagon. “The Doctor” recovered quickly and waded right back into the fray, happy to exchange with Urbina before slamming a left hand down the pipe that landed square and instantly halted the action.

Now 11-3 as a professional, the 32-year-old Serbian still carries a 100-percent finishing rate, with each of his last two wins coming in the opening stanza. Medic has been an all-action fighter throughout his UFC tenure, and should continue to deliver exciting bouts each time out.

Eric McConico and Cody Brundage kicked off Saturday’s action with a gruelling clash between traditional middleweights elevated a weight class as a result of the fight coming together on short notice.

McConico clipped Brundage in the opening seconds of the contest, hurting the Factory X representative, but failed to capitalize, allowing Brundage to wrestle and work back into the frame. The second was a grind, with the more experienced Brundage leaning on his wrestling and McConico landing the better strikes in their sporadic exchanges. In the third, the duo once again spent a great deal of time stapled against the fence, with McConico being the fresher of the two, but Brundage doing well to land sharp, individual shots.

The judges were tasked with determining the victor, and when the scorecards were collected and totalled, it was McConico that came out ahead, registering his first UFC victory in the process.