Dutch middleweight Reinier de Ridder is only two fights into his UFC career, but he’s already ranked in the top 15, and hopes a big win over undefeated prospect Bo Nickal at UFC Des Moines will set him up for even bigger things later this year.

It’s a move that has already paid dividends, with back-to-back submission victories over Gerald Meerschaert and Kevin Holland getting his UFC career off to a flying start and sending him into Saturday’s co-main event bout with Nickal already ranked 13th in the division.

De Ridder is keen to move his way up the middleweight division, and revealed that he was close to accepting a quick-turnaround fight before he was eventually offered a bout with Nickal.

“Yeah, we were talking about a quick, short-notice fight,” he explained.

“So I was supposed to maybe even fight a week later, after the last LA fight, but it didn't come to fruition, unfortunately. Then, a couple weeks later, they called me about the Bo fight.

“The Paul Craig fight wasn't that exciting, but he showed what he's been working on. He's been working on his striking, his footwork looks decent, his cage control looks pretty decent, some decent pump fakes, and his overhands are not too bad. So, yeah, he's doing what he can.”

“Well, the big one now is Khamzat [Chimaev] versus Dricus [Du Plessis], of course. A bit of a grappler versus striker matchup, and there's a few guys underneath there that are pretty good everywhere,” he explained.

“Caio [Borralho] is pretty good at striking and grappling. [Nassourdine] Imavov is a good striker and a good grappler. And I've trained with Dricus a bit, and his grappling is no joke, either. That's where we're at anyway, you gotta do it all. You gotta be good everywhere.”

Perhaps surprisingly, given the names he listed, de Ridder said he’d actually love to test himself against two of the division’s top strikers, as he revealed that matchups with a pair of former 185-pound champions are on his 2025 wishlist.

“Yeah, I got a couple of dream fights up there,” he grinned.

“[Sean] Strickland would be cool. [Israel] Adesanya would be very cool. One of those would be great as the next fight.”

Before he can call for fights against former champions, de Ridder needs to continue boosting his own stock in the crowded UFC middleweight division, starting with a victory over Nickal on Saturday night.

Nickal’s wrestling credentials are well documented, but de Ridder said he’s been impressed with how the American has worked on rounding out his skill set.

The latest example of that came in Nickal’s unanimous decision victory over Paul Craig at UFC 309, where he opted to stand and strike from distance as he kept well clear of the Scottish submission specialist’s dangerous ground game.

That performance might offer a glimpse into how Nickal could approach things against another grappler in de Ridder, but the Dutchman isn’t convinced that we’ll see a repeat of that showing this weekend.