Five finishes in five trips to the Octagon is one way to get noticed. Another way to stand out is to have such a large, infectious personality that people cannot help but tune-in to your fights. Jean Silva brought both to the table after earning his contract on Dana White’s Contender Series in 2023. He, along with fellow Fighting Nerds Caio Borralho, Mauricio Ruffy and Carlos Prates, broke through in a big way in 2024 and, for the most part, have continued that momentum as they’ve climbed the ladders of their respective divisions in 2025.


 
Of all the identities on the Fighting Nerds, the 28-year-old Silva is, generally, seen as the “wild” one. Silva bares his emotions for all to see, whether he is hyped up and barking like a dog or shedding tears out of joy or sorrow. It all makes sense once you learn about Silva’s story, one that includes losing his brother and seeing his mother assaulted. Silva has openly shared his story with reporters and fans, and that has made people love him all the more.  




FREE FIGHTS: Lopes vs Ortega | Silva vs Mitchell 
One way or another, you’re going to feel something when Silva fights.















                        Jean Silva of Brazil reacts after a submission victory against Bryce Mitchell in a featherweight bout during the UFC 314 event at Kaseya Center on April 12, 2025 in Miami, Florida. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




It helps, of course, that Silva is absolutely steamrolling his opponents in the talent-rich featherweight division.
After securing his contract via the lone decision win on his professional record, Silva promptly got back to his finishing ways. First came a first-round TKO victory over Westin Wilson that saw the Brazilian brutalize the American for as long as the fight lasted. Silva was scheduled to follow-up that performance with a bout in Rio de Janeiro alongside Ruffy until his opponent, William Gomis, was forced to pull out and the fight was scrapped.
MORE NOCHE UFC: Fight By Fight Preview
Silva’s sophomore appearance would instead come at the end of International Fight Week at UFC 303 against the dynamic Charles Jourdain. While the Canadian did his best to stifle Silva, who did miss weight ahead of the fight, Silva found his opening in the second round and delivered a thunderous uppercut to earn another knockout win. 



 









Jean Silva Delivers TKO In His UFC Debut | UFC Fight Night: Ankalaev vs Walker 2


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Jean Silva Delivers TKO In His UFC Debut | UFC Fight Night: Ankalaev vs Walker 2
      





























 / 

Live

























































As if to say that performance wasn’t satisfactory, Silva returned two weeks later to fight Drew Dober in a lightweight bout in Dober’s hometown of Denver. Over the course of 11-and-a-half exhilarating minutes, Silva showed he could not only go shot-for-shot with the division’s knockout leader, but do one better and cause enough damage to get the doctor’s stoppage.
View Silva's Athlete Profile
Determined to leave the mishaps on the scale in the past, Silva spent plenty of time working with the UFC Performance Institute to nail down the weight cut, and he returned in peak condition at UFC Fight Night: Cejudo vs Song in Seattle to open up his 2025 account. There, he faced fellow striking savant Melsik Baghdasaryan and happily dispatched him inside the first frame. Silva’s friendly antics continued to polarize, but he showed he wasn’t anything close to distracted when he followed another high-five with Baghdasaryan almost immediately with a knockdown which started the finishing sequence.
That bout set up a heated and high-leverage matchup with Bryce Mitchell. Silva took exception with a few things Mitchell said (not about Silva, just in general), and he made his dislike known in a pre-fight press conference. 












                        Jean Silva punches Melsik Baghdasaryan in a featherweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at Climate Pledge Arena on February 22, 2025 in Seattle, Washington. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




By the time they made the walk in Miami at UFC 314: Volkanovski vs Lopes, Silva and Mitchell had all eyeballs trained onto them. The Brazilian seemed adamant about embarrassing “Thug Nasty,” taunting him at every turn before eventually putting him to sleep via ninja choke in the second round. 
The bout catapulted Silva into the top-10 and have some wondering if he could secure a title shot with his first main event opportunity against Diego Lopes.



Noche UFC Fight Week Guide 
That matchup, which headlines Noche UFC in San Antonio, is one that screams barnburner. Lopes doesn’t often take steps backward, and Silva seems more than happy to engage in such a fight. With the featherweight title picture somewhat up in the air beyond Lerone Murphy, a statement-making victory on September 13 could very well put Silva in prime position to challenge for the belt next year.  







Noche UFC: Lopes vs Silva took place live Frost Bank Center in San Antonio, Texas on September 13,2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          Noche UFC