Whenever the UFC has ventured to South Beach in recent years, things have been eventful, and Saturday was no different, as UFC 314 lit up Kaseya Center and left us with plenty to talk about in the aftermath.
Again, I’m not going to be one of them.
You can only beat the guys they put in front of you, and thus far, Pimblett has beaten them all since joining the UFC, and he’s beaten the last two handily. After putting King Green to sleep with a triangle choke last year, “Paddy the Baddy” completely dominated Chandler at UFC 314, encountering very little resistance and no real rough patches on the way to pounding out a third-round stoppage win over the former title challenger.
This is precisely what Pimblett said would happen and he’s a hundred percent correct in puffing out his chest and calling out his doubters, because if Chandler had won, we’d have been hearing a chorus of “I told you so” for the last 48 hours as people crowed about the charismatic fan favorite finally faltering.
But he didn’t; he thrived and forced his way into the Top 10 in one of the deepest most competitive divisions in the sport.
We’re going to get the same “this is the one where Paddy stumbles” narrative heading into the next matchup, regardless of who it’s against, and we’ll probably get people saying, “yeah, but…” after it should Pimblett emerge victorious again.
But me, I’m just gonna say that Pimblett has continued to improve and impress each time out, and rather than find ways to tear him down and diminish his success, I’m just going to continue to enjoy the show.
Hit the music!
Can’t Help But Be Happy for Dominick Reyes
Like many people, I am of the opinion that on February 8, 2020, Dominick Reyes did enough to defeat Jon Jones and win the UFC light heavyweight title. It was close, but the challenger did enough in my eyes, and it was gut-wrenching to watch him walk out of the Octagon without the title it felt like he had earned around his waist.
Watching Reyes get mired in a funk and land on the business end of three consecutive stoppage losses to Jan Blachowicz, Jiri Prochazka, and Ryan Spann was even more difficult, because you knew that part of the reason for his struggles was the residue of that night at UFC 247 staying present in his mind, plastered to his every movement since.
There is something unshakable about moments like that and they have a way of lingering, impacting everything you do until you’re finally able to detach yourself from them, and for the better part of four years, Reyes could not be anyone other than the guy that maybe, kinda, probably beat Jon Jones and still didn’t walk away with the title.
The relief in his eyes and the emotions that came pouring out of him when he beat Dustin Jacoby last June replaced the image of him walking out of the Octagon empty handed for me, and while his win over Anthony Smith last December felt a little tough under the circumstances, his knockout win over Nikita Krylov was another feel-good moment in what my colleague Zac Pacleb and I are officially calling “The Domaissance.”
Reyes has now won three straight to climb back into the Top 10 and the title picture. He looks like the guy that marched his way to that championship opportunity with Jones and feels like a legitimate contender in a division that is in a state of flux at the moment, and it’s impossible not to feel good for him.
This sport is unforgiving and very seldom do competitors find a way to steer out of the kind of downward spiral Reyes was stuck in. If they do, it’s rare that they return to the heights they had previously reached, because — in his case — he went more than four years without a win, took some pretty nasty knocks along the way, and was reaching his mid-30s.
But here he is, more than five years removed from that fateful night in Las Vegas, riding a three-fight finishing streak, making a second case for title contention.
Who doesn’t love a feel-good story?
Quick Hitters
Yair Rodriguez looked exceptional in registering a unanimous decision win over the debuting Patricio Pitbull, fighting with both urgency and poise while maintaining his pace and output over the full 15 minutes. It was, in my opinion, the best overall outing of his UFC career, and while I don’t know if it was enough to merit a championship opportunity at Noche UFC in Guadalajara, it definitely put the former interim champ on the short list of potential options to face the once and current king later this year.
Jean Silva continues to impress each time out, and his effort against Bryce Mitchell on Saturday should have everyone in the division paying close attention to his next couple moves. The Fighting Nerds representative marched down Mitchell with the kind of confidence and swagger that can throw anyone off their game, and he has the arsenal of offensive skills to back up that approach, as he’s shown while building a 5-0 mark with five stoppages to begin his UFC career.
He may not crack the Top 10 when the rankings update, but if I were someone in the 4-11 range right now, I might consider putting my phone on Do Not Disturb and sending the UFC matchmakers to voicemail when they call, because I’m not sure I want to be the person standing opposite the streaking 28-year-old next.
Dan Ige showed on Saturday night why everyone that understands this sport is about so much more than just wins and losses has the utmost respect for him. His win over Sean Woodson halted a two-fight skid, which is always important, but illustrated that Ige and his ilk are often too harshly judged or too frequently under-appreciated simply because they land on the wrong side of things against stiff competition.
Breaking into the rankings and staying there is difficult, especially in a division as loaded as featherweight, and Ige has continued to do that, and will forever have my respect and appreciation for not only what he does, but the way he carries himself, as well.
Virna Jandiroba has made herself undeniable. Over each of her last five fights, the Brazilian has taken out a ranked opponent and taken another step forward in the division, to the point that she is now out of steps to take outside of stepping in against the strawweight champ, Zhang Weili. She dominated Yan Xiaonan after submitting Amanda Lemos in her previous fight, and could be fighting for the title next.
Chase Hooper has become an excellent fighter, and anyone still anchored to their previous impressions and ideas about “The Dream” needs to refresh their thinking about the Washington state standout. The 25-year-old outworked Jim Miller and is now 5-0 in the lightweight division, with continually improving striking and legitimately elite grappling skills
Julian Erosa is now the official talisman for standout journeymen in the UFC. He earned his third straight first-round stoppage win on Saturday, and remains not only a tough out for everyone he steps in with, but someone that is allergic to being in an uneventful fight, and that makes him both essential to the division and must-see TV in my books.
Marco Tulio brings a lot of intrigue to the middleweight division, as his power and diversity of offensive skills feel, at this stage, a little different than what we typically see. He thumped on Tresean Gore on Saturday to move to 2-0 in the UFC, and feels like the type of person you could hustle up the ladder a little quicker, just to see where he stands.
One Last Thing