Tatiana Suarez will return to the Octagon this weekend determined to prove that she‚Äôs the best strawweight on the planet.


 
Suarez heads to Noche UFC this weekend having fallen to her first MMA defeat ‚Äì a unanimous decision loss to champion Zhang Weili in their strawweight title fight at UFC 312.
And, while some fighters can struggle to shake off the disappointment of losing for the first time, Suarez said she had no problem putting that defeat in the rearview mirror.
MORE NOCHE UFC: Fight By Fight Preview | Fighters On The Rise | Representing Mexico
‚ÄúOh, for me, that's easy,‚Äù she said.











                        Tatiana Suarez prepares to face Zhang Weili of China in the UFC strawweight championship fight during the UFC 312 event at Qudos Bank Arena on February 09, 2025 in Sydney, Australia. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




‚ÄúI just don't let anything, whether it's a horrible performance and a win, or if it's a loss, I don't let anything deter me... I just went back to training, because I love to do it. And then I booked a fight, and here I am, looking to get a victory here on Saturday.‚Äù
Chatting with UFC.com during fight week, Suarez was in a positive mood, and delighted to be able to be getting back in the Octagon seven months on from that defeat.
‚ÄúIt feels amazing,‚Äù she smiled.
‚ÄúI'm just glad, obviously, to be back quicker than I was last time, so it doesn't feel foreign or anything like that.‚Äù











                        Tatiana Suarez reacts after her submission victory over Jessica Andrade of Brazil in a strawweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at Bridgestone Arena on August 05, 2023 in Nashville, Tennessee. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




Suarez has had to overcome plenty of adversity during her life, both inside and outside of the sporting arena, and those prior battles have helped give Suarez perspective, and the ability to move on quickly from setbacks.
‚ÄúI‚Äôve lost so many times during wrestling,‚Äù she said.
Everything You Need To Know Aboiut Noche UFC And Canelo vs Crawford
‚ÄúI‚Äôve wrestled since I was three years old. I've had so many losses because I've just been competing in it for so long... For me, there‚Äôs losses on the mat and losses outside of the mat, like in life. I had cancer, but then I won, because I beat it! And other setbacks ‚Äì I had a neck injury when I was wrestling and I had to take some time off. And then I ended up fighting MMA, and I‚Äôve had a lot of injuries throughout my career... But, for me, I always keep a positive mindset, and I always just keep going forward.‚Äù
That positivity extends to her own self-confidence, which remains undimmed, though she did reveal one particular issue that she had to deal with against Zhang that she wishes she could have avoided.











                        Tatiana Suarez knees Jessica Andrade of Brazil in a strawweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at Bridgestone Arena on August 05, 2023 in Nashville, Tennessee. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC via Getty Images)
              




"Well, I wouldn't have hurt my knee. That would been number one!‚Äù she smiled.
‚ÄúThat changed a lot of things. I‚Äôve never publicly said anything, like, ‚ÄòOh, here's why I lost.‚Äô But it definitely changed a lot of things, and definitely changed the way I fought... If you watch any of my fights, I don't just go out there and shoot sporadically. ¬ÝI felt like I just got a little nervous because I had hurt my knee, and I didn't know what was going on. So I didn't fight like myself... I ended up making mistakes throughout the fight, and it cost me the fight. But it's OK, because now I've learned from it, and I'm banking that. My brain learned it's not going to do that again.‚Äù
Suarez is taking the positives from her defeat and, given the limitations she was battling during the fight, she has emerged with her confidence intact.
‚ÄúI'm not trying to come off as cocky, because I'm not. But I don't think that was my true self out there,‚Äù she said.



 









Unfiltered | Rob Font, Tatiana Suarez, Noche UFC Predictions


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there‚Äôs always something new to watch. Leave it to the world‚Äôs authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there‚Äôs always something new to watch. Leave it to the world‚Äôs authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Unfiltered | Rob Font, Tatiana Suarez, Noche UFC Predictions
      





























 / 

Live

























































‚ÄúSo I can't say that Weili is better than me ‚Äì I don't believe that. I think that I just didn't show my true self out there. Some circumstances happened, and then it led to that... But I think had that not happened, it would have turned out a little differently and definitely would have been a lot more entertaining of a fight and more competitive than what showed... So, who knows? We could have had a five-round all-out war, and I would have been happy with that, even if I had lost. But, at the same time, I'm like, ‚ÄòOK, I know that wasn't me, and that's what displayed out there.‚Äô‚Äù
FOLLOW @UFCNEWS: On Facebook | On Instagram | On X | On Threads
Suarez hopes to show her real self on Saturday night, when she faces fellow strawweight contender Amanda Lemos in San Antonio.¬Ý
‚ÄúI think she's a great fighter,‚Äù she said.
‚ÄúI think she's well rounded, and I‚Äôm excited about that because it'll showcase how great I really am. And I can show everybody that I'm still the best in the world, even though my last fight didn't show it.‚Äù












                        Tatiana Suarez secures a submission against Montana De La Rosa in a flyweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on February 25, 2023 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Suarez‚Äôs return to action is particularly well timed, with a changing of the guard set to take place at the top of the strawweight division.
Zhang is set to vacate the belt and move up to challenge Valentina Shevchenko for the undisputed women‚Äôs flyweight title, while strawweight contenders Virna Jandiroba and Mackenzie Dern are set to face off for the 115-pound title in the co-main event of UFC 321.
It means that, should Suarez claim victory on Saturday night, she could find herself first in line to challenge the new champion. But while she recognizes the situation, Suarez said she won‚Äôt be looking to rush straight back into a title fight if she‚Äôs successful on Saturday night.
‚ÄúI think this will definitely get me in the talks of, ‚ÄòOK, who's next for the belt?‚Äô‚Äù she said. ‚ÄúI'm not asking for an immediate title shot after I go and win, but I do think that it sets me up and it puts me in a good spot... If I have to go ahead and beat Yan Xiaonan next, I‚Äôll do that, as well. It doesn't matter to me. I'm just excited to get this one done and then, obviously, keep climbing towards my goal of becoming a world champion.‚Äù











Tatiana Suarez punches Nina Ansaroff in their women's strawweight bout during the UFC 238 event at the United Center on June 8, 2019 in Chicago, Illinois. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)






And, whatever Saturday night ‚Äì and the rest of her UFC career ‚Äì has in store, you can count on one thing ‚Äì Suarez will leave it all in the Octagon in her quest for glory.
‚ÄúI always give everything that I have,‚Äù she said.
‚ÄúI train so hard because I want to go in there knowing that I did everything I possibly could to win my fight. And if I come up short, then I come up short. But at least I did everything I could and I know that I wasn‚Äôt just being lazy and half-doing it ‚Äì I was giving it my all.
‚ÄúSo that‚Äôs what I always pride myself in ‚Äì always giving everything that I can.‚Äù




Noche UFC: Lopes vs Silva took place live Frost Bank Center in San Antonio, Texas on September 13,2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          Noche UFC