Every time the story of Rongzhu is told, there’s an important fact to point out right off the top, not only because it defies belief, but it foreshadows things to come: the lightweight has been fighting professionally since he was 16 years old.


 
Of course, he’s not the only fighter in the world to start so young, but he’s one of the only to have such sustained success over that stretch. Now aged 25 and in his second run under the UFC banner, Rongzhu has compiled a record (26-6) that many fighters ten years his senior haven’t had time to achieve, like his opponent this week at UFC Shanghai: Austin Hubbard.
Saturday's Fight By Fight Preview
Initially signed to the promotion back in 2021 from the UFC Performance Institute’s UFC Academy Combine in Shanghai, China, he had an uneven 1-2 run before returning to the regional scene. The 2023-2024 Road To UFC tournament proved to be the perfect platform for the Sichuan, China native to dominantly reassert himself, and he came away with his second UFC contract.











                        Rongzhu of China punches Kody Steele in a lightweight fight during the UFC 312 event at Qudos Bank Arena on February 09, 2025 in Sydney, Australia. (Photo by Jeff Bottari)
              




He comes into Saturday on the heels of a stellar UFC 312 Fight Of The Night effort vs Kody Steele, a fight still in the running for the best of 2025. He got his hand raised in one of the rare occasions his bouts have had to go to the judges’ scorecards. But instead of patting himself too hard on the back, he opted instead to step his game up.
“After the last fight, I went back to New Zealand to be trained at City Kickboxing,” he explains via translator. Coach Eugene Bareman’s stable has proven to be one of the most elite in the business, turning out alumni like champ Alexander Volkanovski, Dan Hooker, Israel Adesanya and Kai Kara-France.
Don't Miss Road To UFC Semifinals Live From Shanghai
“I have learned so much from my coaches and my partners, as well as other UFC fighters like (Israel) Adesanya. I have learned a lot and made a lot of progress. So this time I will put on an even more exciting show.”
He says this last part with excitement, as if he found a place where he belongs.



 









Rong Zhu Finishes Jenkins In The 3rd Round | UFC Fight Night: Smith vs Spann


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Rong Zhu Finishes Jenkins In The 3rd Round | UFC Fight Night: Smith vs Spann
      





























 / 

Live

























































“I like City Kickboxing because of the atmosphere there. The team there is very cohesive and people there are helping each other. Also, they are very good coaches and make very good plans for my matches and for my training. So I feel very good about this.”
He’s also surround by veterans that, like him, are blessed with the benefit of hindsight.
UFC SHANGHAI FULL FIGHTS: Walker vs Craig | Zhang vs Smith | Ortega vs Rodriguez | Sterling vs Kattar 
“During my first journey with the UFC, I was too young and I was not experienced enough, either for my game, in my training or in my life.”
He’s probably being a little hard on himself here. He had compiled a record of 17-3 before he even stepped foot in the UFC, and 16 of those were finishes. Sure, the lights are always a little brighter in the big show, but it was always evident Rongzhu had the goods. But nonetheless, he points to the past four years as the most significant in his personal and professional growth.












                        Rongzhu of China reacts after a victory against Kody Steele in a lightweight fight during the UFC 312 event at Qudos Bank Arena on February 09, 2025 in Sydney, Australia. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




“This time around, I'm more mature, I'm better prepared and I’m a whole new me. So this time I'm going to show everyone the evolution I have gone through.”
In Hubbard, Rongzhu faces an opponent with an arc similar to his own. “Thud” is also on his second stint in the UFC, this time on the strength of some strong work on Season 31 of The Ultimate Fighter.
ICYMI: Reinier de Ridder And Anthony Hernandez Clash In Vancouver Main Event
“Honestly, I have been impressed with the UFC matchmakers,” Rongzhu says. “Both of us have such similar experience. We also left the UFC and came back again.”
But where Hubbard has certainly faced more UFC-level talent, he’s eight years the senior of Rongzhu, who also boasts five more pro bouts, despite that age gap. It’s a similar story of many who stand across from Rongzhu, and that only bolsters his confidence.



 
        View this post on Instagram            A post shared by 茸主 (@rongzhu3.7)



 
“I think I will overwhelm him; dominate him either in striking or in wrestling or with grappling or the BJJ.”
In other words, it doesn’t matter how Hubbard comes at him; Rongzhu is ready.
“During my last fight, I was in my optimal condition,” he explains. “And I think this time I will perform even better. I think I’ll outdo myself.”




UFC Fight Night: Walker vs Zhang took place live from Shanghai Indoor Stadium in Shanghai, China on August 23, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!