They say there’s no rest for the wicked, but that sentiment also applies to beloved champions, too.


 
Merab Dvalishvili was the toast of his native Georgia when he dethroned Sean O’Malley to capture the undisputed UFC bantamweight title at UFC 306 last September. Now, just four months removed from that night, “The Machine” is revving up for another outing as he prepares to put his title on the line for the first time.
UFC 311 COUNTDOWN: Merab vs Umar | Islam vs Arman | Full Episode
Dvalishvili will take on undefeated Russian contender Umar Nurmagomedov, who burst into title contention with a win over Cory Sandhagen at UFC Abu Dhabi last August to put himself in prime position to challenge for the title. Now the pair are booked to collide in the co-main event of UFC 311, which takes place at Intuit Dome in Inglewood, California, on January 18.











                        Merab Dvalishvili of Georgia grapples with Sean O'Malley in the UFC bantamweight championship fight during the UFC 306 at Riyadh Season Noche UFC event at Sphere on September 14, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Dvalishvili knows that he’s up against a legitimate threat but admitted that he was less impressed with how quickly Nurmagomedov was granted his title shot.
“Umar is a good fighter. It's a big challenge, but he didn’t earn it like the rest of us,” he told UFC.com ahead of fight night.
UFC 311 MAIN EVENT: Makhachev Erases All Doubt | Tsarkukyan's Journey 
“We all know that we all work hard to earn to get here. And I haven’t gotten anything easy, but Umar somehow gets it easy. He just complains all the time. Nobody wants to fight him. But there are so many good fighters. He only fought Sandhagen, (who has) no wrestling, and he’s using this excuse; he beat the number two guy, and how he’s here. 
“It’s a big challenge, but what I hate is he hasn’t earned it like a UFC fighter should earn it. And then he’s just cocky. He should be humble. That’s what real men should do.”



 









Noche UFC Lookback With Merab Dvalishvili


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Noche UFC Lookback With Merab Dvalishvili
      





























 / 

Live

























































Stacking the two fighters’ respective resumes side by side, Dvalishvili’s path to the title certainly seems significantly tougher. The Georgian faced fellow prospects early in his UFC career, then defeated a string of respected veterans and contenders, including a trio of former UFC world champions in Jose Aldo, Petr Yan and Henry Cejudo, before earning his shot at the bantamweight crown.
Order UFC 311: Makhachev vs Moicano
Then-champion O’Malley was being hailed as the sport’s next big superstar, but Dvalishvili ignored the noise, stuck to his gameplan and earned a unanimous decision victory to capture the title.
His championship victory was celebrated back in Georgia, and a homecoming visit shortly after his win showed him just how much he is revered in his homeland.












Merab Dvalishvili con su cinturón en UFC 306.
 






“Once I stepped out from the plane, the police and the people, everybody, (they were) so happy and proud of me,” he smiled.
FOLLOW @UFCNEWS: On Facebook | On Instagram | On X
It doesn’t matter, young people, old ladies, everybody was watching, everybody was happy, because this is a big deal. Me, as a Georgian guy, fighting in the U.S., then fighting in the UFC, and then becoming UFC champion. That was huge.
“I think if there was an election now, I could become the Georgian president! I’m serious! But I stay away from politics, because politics is dirty and it's a lot of drama. I want to do what I know – that’s fighting, and that’s what I’m best at.”



 

Please enable Javascript to view this content



 
By winning the bantamweight title, Dvalishvili joined Ilia Topuria as a Georgian UFC champion, and he said that the success of both men inside the Octagon has a bigger effect on their Georgian fanbase than just a short-term feel-good factor. It can change the media narrative and bring more positivity into the lives of their fellow countrymen.
“This is really huge for us,” Dvalishvili explained.
UFC 311 CO-MAIN: Dvalishvili Interview | Umar Nurmagomedov Interview
“We have a big heart, we are warrior people, and we are talented, as well. Maybe I'm not talented! But, I mean, Georgians, we are. And for my country, it's been huge.



 




 
“Everybody is watching UFC now, it's a top moment in Georgia now. Like, in politics, there is a lot of protesting and stuff. But once they announced my fight and the news came, I think it was on the cover of all of the news. 
“Sometimes it’s crazy how this can change and move attention. Fighting news can latch people’s attention onto something else.”
Dvalishvili always knew he’d be celebrated back home in Georgia, but what has also filled his heart is the respect he has received from his peers since reaching the bantamweight summit.



 









Full Fight | Merab Dvalishvili vs Sean O'Malley 1


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Full Fight | Merab Dvalishvili vs Sean O'Malley 1
      





























 / 

Live

























































"My country loves me so much. It doesn't matter if I lose or I win, they love me and my family and my people love me,” he said.
“But to go to the MMA gyms and even the UFC PI, I see all the professional fighters and I get respect from them. That was the best, because, yeah, I’m in the club! To get respect from real fighters, I think this is the number one thing that I’m happy about.”
How To Watch UFC 311 In Your Country
With the backing of his nation and the respect of his peers, Dvalishvili heads into his first title defense against Nurmagomedov aware of the challenge in front of him, but confident in his ability to get the job done and emerge victorious.
“The fight will be really tough. This is a big, big challenge for me, because it's a new face and yeah, he's a good fighter,” he said. 
“It’s gonna be a tough fight. A good fight. Of course, I'm gonna be looking for the finish. To win against a top opponent and change his zero to one loss, that will be good.”





UFC 311: Makhachev vs Moicano took place live from Intuit Dome in Inglewood, California on January 18, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          Los Angeles
        



          pay per view
        



          Two Title Fights
        



          Intuit Dome