Tuesday afternoon, I asked promising middleweight Ateba Gautier what he would have said to someone if they came to him five years ago and told him that in the not too distant future, he would be competing in the UFC, fighting on a massive pay-per-view card in his second appearance with the promotion after debuting earlier in the year in Mexico City.


 
Propped up against the headboard in his New Orleans hotel room just a few days prior to his preliminary card clash with Robert Valentin, the 23-year-old middleweight from Cameroon left me speechless with his response.
“I don’t know what I would tell that person,” began Gautier, shaking his head and laughing at the thought of someone bringing those possibilities to him back in 2020. “(I would probably say something) like ‘There is no place here to have this kind of dream.’”



Canelo vs Crawford Presale Begins July 17. Sign Up Now!



He continued smiling. I immediately stopped laughing alongside him.











                        Ateba Gautier of Cameroon punches Jose Daniel Medina of Bolivia in a middleweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at CDMX Arena on March 29, 2025 in Mexico City, Mexico. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




“There is no place in Cameroon where you can have this kind of dream,” he continued. “They are still dreaming, but that’s not (possible); I can’t, I won’t be there. You can’t dream like that when you’re in Cameroon. That’s not a dream — it’s a hallucination or an illusion; it’s not a dream at all.
“Five years ago, I would have said no,” he added. “Now that I’m here, everything is possible.”



WATCH: UFC 318 Embedded
These are the kinds of things you don’t necessarily consider when you’re a 46-year-old white Canadian male, born into a middle-class family where attending university wasn’t an option, but an expectation, and very few careers ever seemed out of reach.
Sure, I had childhood hallucinations of growing to be six-foot-four and turning my obsession with basketball and mediocre jump shot into an extended career in the NBA, but only reaching five-ten and never finding consistency with my jumper just meant that I had to shift my focus to one of the multitude of professional options available to me.














                        Ateba Gautier of Cameroon knees Jose Daniel Medina of Bolivia in a middleweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at CDMX Arena on March 29, 2025 in Mexico City, Mexico. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




But Gautier’s teenage reality is one that is far more common for innumerable individuals, which makes the fact that a little over four years after making his professional debut — and just over three years after touching down in the United Kingdom — he’s set to make the walk to the Octagon for the second time this weekend even more incredible.
When asked what it means to have turned those hallucinations into reality and now be chasing tangible dreams, it was Gautier’s turn to be left without words.



POWER SLAP 14: Live And Free On YouTube | Get Tickets | More Info
“I don’t know if I will find a word, but I’m going to try,” he said, taking a beat to express things as best as he could. “Now I’m just trying to live the moment; to be here in the moment. I don’t want to be somewhere (else) or think about the future; I don’t want to know my emotion now.



“I want to achieve something in my life, and I know I’m in a good place, have good people next to me, so I just focus on my goals. I will think about (what it means) later. Now I need to be in the moment.
“I have a fight, so let’s focus on the fight; live the moment.”



 









Ateba Gautier Knocks Out Jose Daniel Medina In The First Round | UFC Mexico


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Ateba Gautier Knocks Out Jose Daniel Medina In The First Round | UFC Mexico
      





























 / 

Live

























































That was the mindset Gautier carried with him into his first appearance of the year back in March, when he walked into the Octagon at Arena CDMX in Mexico City and stopped Jose Daniel Medina in the first round to collect his first UFC victory.
“In the moment, it just felt like a normal day in my gym,” he said about his debut, which came six months after he earned his place on the roster with a second-round stoppage win over Yura Naito on Season 8 of Dana White’s Contender Series. “I didn’t put myself in the UFC — I was in my gym.



GET YOUR TICKETS: UFC 318 | UFC Abu Dhabi | UFC 319
“For me it was like sparring with someone without shinguards, without any protection; that’s how I thought about it in my mind to make it easy. In my head, even with 20,000 people (in the arena), I’m just going to fight against one guy, so it’s just him.”



He was facing a fellow Contender Series graduate, but not one that earned his place in the middleweight ranks with a victory.












                        Ateba Gautier of Cameroon punches Jose Daniel Medina of Bolivia in a middleweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at CDMX Arena on March 29, 2025 in Mexico City, Mexico. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Medina was given a contract following his loss to Magomed Gadzhiyasulov on the sixth season of the annual talent search series, as the Colombian impressed UFC President Dana White with his durability, toughness and overall moxie. Though he landed on the wrong side of the scorecards in his first trip into the Octagon, “Chicho” forced his opponent, Zachary Reese, beyond the first round for just the second time in his career, and made him battle hard for 15 minutes for the first time.
That durability prompted Medina to suggest he was incapable of being knocked out, an idea that Gautier took issue with even before they stepped into the Octagon together.
MORE UFC 318: Fight by Fight Preview | Fighters On The Rise | Prospect To Watch: Vinicius Oliveira | Poirier and Holloway: Journey To The Trilogy | BMF Title Lineage | How To Watch UFC 318
“To be honest, I don’t believe someone can be that tough,” he said in regard to Medina’s pre-fight assertion. “People are tough, but if you connect in the right moment, the right place — you’re just human. He used to say no one can knock him out, but obviously everyone can get knocked out.
“Everyone is human, everyone can get knocked out by something. You’re human, so be humble. I know I have the power that I can knock anyone out; I just need to touch you in the right moment, land one good punch.”











                        Ateba Gautier of Cameroon prepares to face Yura Naito of Japan in a middleweight fight during Dana White's Contender Series Season Eight, Week Six at UFC APEX on September 17, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Or, as was the case when they fought, one really good knee.
“Yeah, one really good knee,” Gautier agreed, chuckling.
Following the victory, Gautier and the crew from Manchester Top Team flew from Mexico City to Las Vegas, and the next day, the ascending prospect was right back in the gym.
No vacation, no celebration, no Las Vegas chaos — just right back to work.











                        Ateba Gautier of Cameroon punches Yura Naito of Japan in a middleweight fight during Dana White's Contender Series Season Eight, Week Six at UFC APEX on September 17, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




“I don’t think of this as work,” offered Gautier, who carries a 7-1 record with six straight stoppage victories into Saturday’s televised preliminary card pairing with Valentin. “It’s not a job — I like to do it; no one forces me to do it.
“I love fighting, I have no fears to do it, and I like (being in the gym). I’m still learning, so why should I stop? There are no days off. Even on my day off, I’m doing something.”
That “Why stop?” mentality carries over to the way he views his career in the UFC, as well.
Though he’s solely focused on the task at hand, the powerful middleweight is fully confident in his ability to dispatch Valentin the same way he did Medina earlier this year, and should things play out that way, Gautier wants to get right back to work, immediately.











                        Ateba Gautier of Cameroon reacts after a knockout victory against Jose Daniel Medina of Bolivia in a middleweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at CDMX Arena on March 29, 2025 in Mexico City, Mexico. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




“To be honest, after I knock Robert out this Saturday, I just want the UFC to give me more fights,” began Gautier. “I’m still learning, so I need more experience, so just let me fight. I’m young! I have nothing else to do, so keep me busy!
“I will win the fight — I’m gonna knock this guy out — so just give me a fight. Next week there is a card: if they want me next week, just give me the fight; I’ll knock this guy out and then knock (the next guy out), very quick. You order and I deliver, easy.”
So a Sunday morning flight from New Orleans to Abu Dhabi, where a pair of middleweight contests are slated for the main card and could perhaps require a short-notice replacement?
“No problem,” Gautier said with a smile. “I just want to be busy, getting more experience; more and more and more. I just want to fight.”





UFC 318: Holloway vs Poirier 3 took place live from Smoothie King Center in New Orleans, Louisiana on July 19, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          UFC 318