Have you ever been fortunate enough to stumble into an impromptu club show by a great artist or band? Or been in the audience when a stand-up megastar decided to pop in to work on their set at the local comedy spot on a Tuesday night?
Heavyweight graduates from Dana White’s Contender Series share the Octagon here, as Austen Lane welcomes Mario Pinto to the UFC for the first time. 
Just as he needed a couple appearances on the annual talent search series to punch his ticket to the big show, it took Lane a couple tries before he was able to register his first UFC win. Last time out, the former NFL defensive lineman played to his strengths, neutralizing the striking of Robelis Despaigne to grind out a unanimous decision victory over the Cuban knockout artist.
The second promising new heavyweight from last year’s DWCS graduating class to make his debut, Pinto returns to the UFC APEX looking to build on his rapid first-round knockout win over Lucas Camacho in his first official foray into the Octagon. The London-based Portuguese prospect turns 27 next month, is 9-0 as a professional, and, like Tallison Teixeira a couple weeks ago, looks the part of a potential threat in the heavyweight division at the outset of his UFC tenure.
Hyder Amil vs William Gomis
The preliminary card slate wraps in the featherweight division with what should be a barnburner between Ricardo Ramos and Chepe Marsical.
Ramos, who has been training with the Fighting Nerds this camp, enters off a split decision win over Josh Culibao at UFC 305 and brandishing an 8-5 mark inside the Octagon. The 32-year-old Mariscal has gone 4-0 to begin his UFC tenure, most recently collecting a unanimous decision win over Damon Jackson in August.
Douglas Silva De Andrade vs John Castenada
Brazilian veteran Douglas Silva de Andrade and Minnesota-based John Castaneda meet here in a potentially explosive bantamweight fixture.
A fixture on the roster since 2014, Silva de Andrade carries a 7-6 record inside the Octagon and 29-6 mark overall into his first appearance of the year, seeking to get things moving in the right direction again following a loss to Miles Johns last time out. Castaneda has gone 4-3 in his first seven UFC starts, earning quality wins over Johns and Muin Gafurov, while landing on the wrong side of the scorecards in competitive bouts with Nathaniel Wood and Daniel Marcos.
Andrea Lee vs. JJ Aldrich
Veteran flyweights Andrea Lee and JJ Aldrich bring a combined 28 UFC appearances into their preliminary card battle this weekend in Las Vegas.
The 36-year-old Lee touches down looking to halt a lengthy losing streak where she’s repeatedly gone the distance, but come up short, including dropping a split decision to Montana De La Rosa last time out. Aldrich had her two-fight winning streak snapped in her lone appearance of last year when she fell to Veronica Hardy on the scorecards in May.
Danny Barlow vs. Sam Patterson
DWCS graduates Danny Barlow and Sam Patterson face off in a battle of ascending welterweights looking to continue their march forward in the 170-pound weight class. 
Barlow, who punched his ticket to the UFC roster with a first-round stoppage win over Raheam Forest in Season 7, earned a pair of victories in his rookie campaign, collecting a third-round stoppage win of Josh Quinlan and a split decision nod over Nikolay Veretennikov last time out. A member of the Class of ’22, Patterson dropped his debut, but has looked like a new man since moving up to welterweight, earning a pair of first-round submission wins last year to establish himself as a person of interest in his new surroundings.
Montana De La Rosa vs Luana Carolina
Montana De La Rosa and Luana Carolina clash in the first of Saturday’s tandem flyweight bouts on the preliminary card.De La Rosa snapped a three-fight slide last June, edging out Lee on the scorecards to move her record to 6-5-1 inside the Octagon. The 31-year-old Carolina enters the weekend on the best run of her UFC career, having posted three straight victories and wins in five of her last seven to arrive on the doorstep of the Top 15 in the 125-pound ranks.
Danny Silva vs. Lucas Almeida
Danny Silva and Lucas Almeida clash in a meeting of all-action featherweights with the potential to set the bar for Fight of the Night honors on Saturday. 
Silva makes his second appearance inside the Octagon this weekend, looking to build on his split decision win over Josh Culibao last year while showing his weight miss was a one-time issue. The 34-year-old Almeida halted a two-fight slide in his lone appearance of 2024, getting the better of Timmy Cuamba in a competitive clash in the middle of June.
Charles Johnson vs. Ramazan Temirov
Flyweights not only close out the show, but open this weekend’s fight card, as well, as streaking veteran Charles Johnson squares off with promising sophomore Ramazan Temirov.
Johnson posted four wins in 2024, turning aside hopefuls Azat Maksum, Jake Hadley, and Joshua Van before wrapping up a 4-0 campaign with a unanimous decision win over Sumudaerji. Temirov extended his overall winning streak to double digits with a first-round knockout win over CJ Vergara in his promotional debut last October, instantly establishing himself as another name to track in the flyweight division in the process.
Please enable Javascript to view this content