“The ‘ber Months” inside the Octagon begin with a three-event September slate that is flush with crucial matchups at the top of some in-focus divisions and the arrival of several intriguing newcomers, along with the usual slate of “this should be interesting” pairings that never fail to deliver. Contenders will emerge and important names to track going forward are sure to announce their presence as we wade into fall and ready for the final push towards the end of 2025.
Keita has been one of the most intriguing rising stars on the global scene for the last several years, serving as a two-division force and champion for Oktagon MMA. The 27-year-old carries a 16-1 record and five-fight winning streak into his maiden UFC voyage, with 10 of his last 13 victories coming inside the distance.
Will Pitbull prove to be too much of a veteran test for the promotional newcomer or will Keita continue to impress and excel now that he’s arrived on the biggest stage in the sport?
Benoît Saint Denis vs Mauricio Ruffy
It’s guaranteed action in this one as Benoit Saint Denis and Mauricio Ruffy clash in the Paris co-main event.
After entering 2024 as a divisional dark horse, back-to-back losses had Saint Denis looking to right the ship earlier this year in Montreal. A late shift in opponents landed him opposite Canadian veteran Kyle Prepolec, whom he submitted in the second round to get things moving in the right direction again and maintain his 100 percent finishing rate.
The first member of the Fighting Nerds crew to arrive in the UFC, Borralho is 7-0 in the UFC and riding a 17-fight unbeaten streak into his second straight main event assignment. A member of the DWCS Class of ’21, “The Natural” has steadily worked his way forward in the division, continually impressing and passing each new test placed before him without much trouble.
With Khamzat Chimaev now stationed on the middleweight throne, this fight and the forthcoming clash between Reinier de Ridder and Anthony Hernandez in Vancouver feel like tandem auditions for the opportunity to challenge the new champ for the title in 2026. We’re going to learn a lot about each man in this one, and it should be an absolutely fascinating clash for as long as it lasts.
Noche UFC: Lopes vs Silva — Saturday, September 13 (San Antonio, TX)
Tatiana Suarez vs Amanda Lemos
Former strawweight title challengers Tatiana Suarez and Amanda Lemos meet in a bout with serious divisional ramifications in San Antonio.
Suarez returns to action for the first time since landing on the wrong side of a one-sided fight in her championship clash with Zhang Weili earlier this year. It was the first professional setback for the former Ultimate Fighter winner, and it will be interesting to see if there is any first loss hangover for her in this one.
Lemos was dominated by the two-time, reigning champion two summers back, and has alternated results across three fights since, beating Mackenzie Dern and Iasmin Lucindo on either side of a submission loss to Virna Jandiroba.
Will Suarez have a return to form and the win column or will Lemos pick up a second straight win and keep herself in the title picture heading into the fall?
Diego Lopes vs Jean Silva
Featherweight standouts Diego Lopes and Jean Silva face off in the Noche UFC main event.
Reyes appears to be all the way back after his grim four-fight losing streak that began with his narrow title loss to Jon Jones way back at UFC 247. He’s earned three straight wins, all by stoppage, and is once again fighting with the focus and suddenness that made him a contender in the first place all those years ago.
With the title set to go up for grabs the following weekend at UFC 320, this is a chance for Ulberg or Reyes to stake their claim to being the clubhouse leader in the chase for the next championship opportunity. It should be a striking heavy battle, and it will be fascinating to see if it will be Ulberg’s technical prowess or Reyes’ power that rules the day.