The annual International Fight Week pay-per-view is always one of the biggest, most star-studded events on the UFC calendar each year.
Veteran middleweight Jack Hermansson and Gregory Rodrigues clash in this bout that potentially carries Top 15 ramifications.
Hermansson returns to action for the first time since February 2024 when he slow-played things against Joe Pyfer, rallying to beat the powerhouse from Philadelphia on the scorecards. Rodrigues also competes coming off a main event assignment, angling to get things moving in the right direction again after being stopped by Jared Cannonier back in February.
Hyder Amil vs Jose Delgado
Hyder Amil and Jose Delgado share the Octagon in a matchup of ascending featherweights with a combined 20 wins in 21 appearances, including 16 finishes.
The 35-year-old Amil has been one of the most exciting additions to the roster over the last 18 months, garnering a trio of wins and standing as an all-action presence since graduating from Season 7 of Dana White’s Contender Series. Delgado, a Season 8 grad, looked sharp in his promotional debut earlier this year, wiping out Connor Matthews to extend his winning streak and finishing streak to six straight.
Viviane Araujo vs Tracy Cortez
It’s a battle of Top 10 flyweights as Viviane Araújo and Tracy Cortez collide on Saturday’s preliminary card slate. 
The 38-year-old Araujo remains one of the division’s top litmus tests, having closed out her 2024 campaign by halting the rise of fellow Brazilian Karine Silva. Cortez returns to action for the first time since last summer when she stepped up on short notice to face off with Rose Namajunas in Denver, where she landed on the wrong side of a decision. 
Terrance McKinney vs Viacheslav Borshchev
Terrance McKinney and Viacheslav Borshchev make their second appearances of the year opposite one another, squaring off in what should be a combustible lightweight pairing early in the evening. 
An explosive talent that has never been to the scorecards in 24 professional appearances, McKinney looked sharp in his 2025 debut, running through veteran Damir Hadzovic in February in Saudi Arabia. Borshchev arrives in Las Vegas looking to return to the win column, having dropped a decision to Tom Nolan earlier this year at UFC 312 to fall to 3-4-1 inside the Octagon. 
Jhonata Diniz vs Alvin Hines
Heavyweights get in on the action early in the night as Jhonata Diniz welcomes Alvin Hines to the Octagon for the first time. 
After earning victories in each of his first two UFC starts, Diniz ran afoul of veteran Marcin Tybura last November at Madison Square Garden. The 33-year-old Hines steps in for Justin Tafa, carrying a perfect 7-0 professional record with six finishes in his short-notice promotional debut this weekend.
Niko Price vs Jacobe Smith
It’s “veteran versus prospect” in the welterweight ranks as Niko Price and Jacobe Smith lock horns in the UFC 317 opener.
The 35-year-old Price has made 18 appearances inside the Octagon, holding an 8-8 record with two no contests and a reputation as an unpredictable wild card every time he steps into the cage. The latest Fortis MMA product to graduate from Dana White’s Contender Series, Smith impressed in his debut back in January, needing just 73 seconds to dispatch Preston Parsons.
Christopher Ewert vs Jackson McVey
It's a clash of debuting, undefeated middleweights on the UFC 317 prelims as Christopher Ewert faces off with Jackson McVey.

Unbeaten in seven pro bouts, Ewert arrives in Las Vegas with seven wins in as many appearances, having most recently beaten prospect Reese Watkins in January. McVey heads into his first UFC appearance with a pristine 6-0 record and 100 percent finishing rate, with all six of his wins coming in the first round, and only one lasting longer than 90 seconds