In attendance for UFC 311 in Inglewood, “Poatan” took some time to briefly comment on the bout announcement with UFC.com.


 
“I said I wanted a longer break to rest, but I went back to training and felt I was doing very well", he said. “Then I called my manager and told him I wanted to fight. And of course it would be Ankalaev".











After claiming the belt on November 2023 by beating Jiri Prochazka, Pereira defended it three times over the last year, knocking out Jamahal Hill at UFC 300, Prochazka once again at UFC 303 and lastly beating Khalil Rountree Jr. in his most competitive match of the season at UFC 307.
Meanwhile, Ankalaev, who had his first crack at the title back in 2022, when he ended up in a split draw against former champion Jan Blachowicz, cemented himself as the number one contender with consecutive wins over Johnny Walker and Aleksandar Rakic. Then the trash talk between the two started on social media.











                        Alex Pereira of Brazil punches Khalil Rountree Jr. in the UFC light heavyweight championship fight during the UFC 307 event at Delta Center on October 05, 2024 in Salt Lake City, Utah. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




“He posted something like ‘You're an employee, so you have to obey', but I am the one who asked for this fight, I want this fight and I like this matchup", said Pereira. “I have to fight this guy. It's something I've asked for before, but he didn't accept. Now he found his courage, so let's do it. I'm very excited for this fight".
FOLLOW @UFCNEWS: On Facebook | On Instagram | On X
Despite any animosity, the Brazilian stays focused on the task ahead. He respects his opponents credentials and guarantees he's ready to prove he's become a well-rounded MMA fighter when facing a Sambo master - whether or not Ankalaev decides to use his grappling skills in this fight.











                        Alex Pereira kicks Jiri Prochazka in the UFC light heavyweight championship fight during the UFC 303 event at T-Mobile Arena on June 29, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




“I'm developing my MMA game all around, I want to show it and I think he's a guy who will allow me to do so", said Poatan. “He says he will stand and strike with me and maybe he will, but maybe he won't. I am ready for everything".
UFC SAUDI ARABIA: Rise of Nassourdine Imavov
“It's a challenge like any other", he continued. “He's a tough opponent, but I don't see anything different from the other guys I fought".



 

Please enable Javascript to view this content




UFC 313: Pereira vs Ankalaev took place live from T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas, Nevada on March 8, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          Alex Pereira