Edgar Chairez is ready to return to action against CJ Vergara in Mexico City on March 29. In order to enter the Octagon at his best, “Puro Chicali”decided to hone his fists at Arnol's Gym in the dangerous neighborhood of Tepito.


 
Tepito's toughness didn't discourage Chairez, but highly motivated him. Edgar felt a strong connection with the humble attitude and daily struggles of his neighbors. He took Tepito's culture like his own while he worked his striking, foot placement and head movement at Arnol's Gym. 
RAÚL ROSAS JR. HAS PLANS FOR 2025
"I am truly happy. I did connect with Tepito's vibe, and the coaches and my gym partners were extremely helpful to hone my boxing skills. I am satisfied and I feel more than prepared to get a W on Saturday" Edgar said.
Despite his loss against Joshua Van in his last outing in Noche UFC, the 29-year-old has fond memories of UFC México. In 2024’s edition, he scored his first victory in the Octagon with a submission of Brazilian Daniel Lacerda.



 









Edgar Chairez Forged In Tepito | UFC Mexico


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Edgar Chairez Forged In Tepito | UFC Mexico
      





























 / 

Live

























































Tepito is located north of the Historic Center of Cuauthémoc District and the high crime rate has given it a reputation as a problematic and dangerous area. 
CJ VERGARA CONNECTED ALL THE DOTS
Nevertheless, Tepito also garnered a reputation as a hotbed of boxing champions such as Raúl Macías, Vicente Saldívar, Luis Villanueva and Rubén Olivares.
"Tepito is a tough neighborhood. Here you learn life lessons everyday." Boxing coach Juan 'Moyo' Marín.












                        Edgar Chairez of Mexico kicks Daniel Lacerda of Brazil in a flyweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at Arena CDMX on February 24, 2024 in Mexico City, Mexico. (Photo by Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC)
              




While submissions have been the most important finishing technique in his 11 wins as a professional, this time, “Puro Chicali” promises to make a 100% Mexican statement in the Octagon:
"This Saturday, the boxing will be my stamp. I wanna win like a Mexican, in dominant fashion on my home soil."




UFC Fight Night: Moreno vs Erceg took place live from Arena CDMX in Mexico City on March 29, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          UFC Mexico