Many fighters have decided to move down in weight as they get older to compete against a new batch of contenders, Jose Aldo and Frankie Edgar being prime examples, but very few fighters decide to reestablish themselves in a heavier weight division midway through their careers.


 
While there are examples of fighters who’ve made history moving up in weight to claim a belt in a second weight division including Amanda Nunes, Conor McGregor, Daniel Cormier, Georges St-Pierre, Henry Cejudo and Jon Jones, most didn’t make the heavier weight division their long-term home, and often had shorter stints before retiring or moving on to other challenges.
Order UFC 316: Dvalishvili vs O'Malley 2
We take a closer look at five fighters who have achieved long-term success after moving up in weight, and preview one fighter competing at UFC 317 who looks to capture a second belt in a new weight division.
Alex Pereira











                        Alex Pereira reacts to his victory over Jiri Prochazka in the UFC light heavyweight championship fight during the UFC 303 event at T-Mobile Arena on June 29, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




In less than three years, light heavyweight champion Alex Pereira has taken the UFC by storm. Pereira made his UFC debut in 2021 at middleweight and won three straight over Andreas Michailidis, Bruno Silva and Sean Strickland, to earn a shot at UFC gold against long-time kickboxing foe Israel Adesanya. He maximized the spotlight in spectacular fashion, pulling off a come from behind TKO victory in the fifth round to win the belt. In just four fights, Pereira was the middleweight champion. How could it get any better?
After Adesanya took back his title in the immediate rematch, Pereira decided to take his talents from middleweight to light heavyweight, a 20-pound weight difference. While Pereira was very large for the middleweight division, it was intriguing to see how he’d fare against much larger opposition. In his first fight in his new division, Pereira earned a hard-fought victory over former 205-pound champion Jan Błachowicz, granting “Poatan” a title shot in just his second fight at light heavyweight. If Pereira wasn’t a superstar yet, he soon would be.
The Ultimate Fighter Season 33 Premieres May 27
At UFC 295, Pereira took out former champion Jiri Prochazka late in the second round to become light heavyweight champion and add himself to the short list of fighters to win a title in two weight divisions. Five months later, Pereira headlined UFC’s historic UFC 300 card against Jamahal Hill, in which he maximized the spotlight by finishing Hill, yet another former champion, spectacularly in the first.
Then, just two months later, Pereira saved the day during International Fight Week, filling McGregor and Michael Chandler’s main event slot at UFC 303 in a rematch against Prochazka. Ending the first round with a near fight-ending knockdown, Pereira unleashed a vicious head kick just 10 seconds into the second round to collect his third straight knockout victory and second light heavyweight title defense. 
At UFC 307, Pereira defended his belt for the third time in seven months against Khalil Rountree Jr. in Salt Lake City. After losing his middleweight title, Pereira won five straight, captured the light heavyweight title and defended it three times. He now sits as the No. 1 ranked contender after losing his title to Magomed Ankalaev at UFC 313.
Charles Oliveira











                        Charles Oliveira celebrates his TKO victory over Beneil Dariush in their lightweight fight during the UFC 289 event at Rogers Arena on June 10, 2023 in Vancouver, Canada. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




Former lightweight champion Charles Oliveira started his UFC career at 155 pounds, but he transitioned to featherweight after going winless in his first three Octagon appearances. Oliveira went 7-5 during his five-year stint at featherweight, with four of those fights taking place over the divisional limit because of his difficulty making weight. In 2017, Oliveira made the decision to move back up to lightweight, and it was a decision that would change his life forever.
At UFC 225, Oliveira submitted Clay Guida via guillotine choke in the first round. While it may seem insignificant since “Do Bronxs” has finished 31 of his 34 victories as a pro, it kickstarted an 11-fight win streak that will go down as one of the greatest title runs in UFC history.
Buy Tickets For UFC 317: Topuria vs Holloway Today!
After winning eight straight, including victories over Tony Ferguson, Kevin Lee and Jim Miller, Oliveira earned a spot in UFC 262’s main event alongside Michael Chandler for the vacant lightweight title. After losing the first round, Oliveira rallied swiftly, stopping Chandler just 19 seconds into the second round to become the undisputed champion.
He then defended his title against Dustin Poirier, submitting the veteran in the third round. Oliveira then missed weight prior to what would’ve been his second title defense against Justin Gaethje at UFC 274. Oliveira still stole the show in Phoenix, Arizona, finishing Gaethje in the first round to prove he was still the best lightweight on the planet during that period. At UFC 309: Jones vs Miocic, Oliveira earned his second victory over Michael Chandler, which has earned him a matchup against Ilia Topuria for the vacant lightweight title at UFC 317.
Sean Strickland











                        Sean Strickland prepares to face Paulo Costa in a middleweight fight during the UFC 302 event at Prudential Center on June 01, 2024 in Newark, New Jersey. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




Sean Strickland has fought in the UFC for so long that many people don’t realize he spent the majority of his UFC career in the welterweight division, fighting the likes of former 170-pound champion Kamaru Usman.
It wasn’t until 10 fights and six years later that Strickland decided to move up to 185 pounds. While he ended his welterweight stint with seven wins in 10 fights, he believed he could take his game to the next level by moving up.
FOLLOW @UFCNEWS: On Facebook | On Instagram | On X
While never quite in the title picture at 170 pounds, Strickland’s impressive run of eight wins in his first 10 middleweight fights, including victories over Brendan Allen, Jack Hermansson and Nassourdine Imavov, earned him a much-deserved shot at gold against then-titleholder Adesanya. Strickland opened as a massive +490 underdog to Adesanya’s -675, but proved every doubter wrong with a dominant unanimous decision victory.
Strickland has lost two of his last three, with both losses coming to the current middleweight champion Dricus du Plessis. As the No. 2 ranked contender, a standout performance against anyone in the Top 5, especially if the title changes hands in August, could earn Strickland another shot to reclaim the belt.
Dustin Poirier











                        Dustin Poirier prepares to face Benoit Saint Denis in a lightweight fight during the UFC 299 event at Kaseya Center on March 09, 2024 in Miami, Florida. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Similar to Strickland’s situation, if you’re a relatively new fan of mixed martial arts, there’s a chance you didn’t know Dustin Poirier began his UFC career at 145 pounds. “The Diamond” made his UFC and featherweight debut in 2011 against Josh Grispi at UFC 125. Poirier fought 10 times at featherweight, facing world-class opponents like Max Holloway, “The Korean Zombie” and Conor McGregor.
But after suffering defeat to McGregor in 2014, Poirier decided to move back up to 155 pounds. He made an immediate impact on the lightweight division, earning back-to-back Performance of the Night bonuses with knockout victories over Diego Ferreira and Yancy Medeiros.
ROAD TO UFC RETURNS THURSDAY: Tournament Preview | How To Watch
While he may have never won the undisputed lightweight title, Poirier became widely recognized as one of the most entertaining fighters on the planet across all weight divisions. Between 2017 and 2019, Poirier picked up four straight wins and bonuses, finishing Anthony Pettis, Justin Gaethje and Eddie Alvarez, and earning interim lightweight gold against Holloway.
Poirier’s lightweight run also includes two redemptive victories over McGregor, a Fight of the Night-earning performance against Michael Chandler and a knockout over Benoît Saint Denis which earned him a title fight against current lightweight champion Islam Makhachev. Poirier is now just months away from his final fight inside the Octagon: a main event matchup with BMF champion Max Holloway at UFC 318.
Robert Whittaker











                        Robert Whittaker reacts after his victory against Ikram Aliskerov in a middleweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at Kingdom Arena on June 22, 2024 in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Five fights in the UFC welterweight division was all fan-favorite Robert Whittaker needed to see before making his move up to middleweight in 2014.
As soon as he made the move to middleweight, Whittaker went on a six-fight tear to earn a shot at gold against Yoel Romero at UFC 213. In a five-round war, Whittaker stuffed 14 of the Olympic Silver Medalist’s 18 takedown attempts and landed 74 significant strikes to Romero’s 48 to win the title.
Gear Up for TUF 33: Team Cormier vs Team Sonnen At UFC Store
Although Whittaker lost his belt to Adesanya in 2019, he has continued to establish himself as one of the top contenders in the division, with key victories over Jared Cannonier, Marvin Vettori, and Paulo Costa. Whittaker’s lost just three times in 17 fights at middleweight with all three of those losses coming to a current or former champion (Adesanya x2, Du Plessis).
In June, Whittaker stunned Kingdom Arena in the UFC’s first-ever trip to Saudi Arabia, earning a Performance of the Night bonus for his first-round knockout over one of the middleweight division’s hottest prospects, Ikram Aliskerov. After suffering defeat to the next middleweight title challenger Khamzat Chimaev at UFC 308, Whittaker makes his return to the Octagon on July 26 against surging contender Reinier de Ridder.
Ilia Topuria











                        Ilia Topuria celebrates after his knockout victory against Alexander Volkanovski in the UFC featherweight championship fight during the UFC 298 event at Honda Center on February 17, 2024 in Anaheim, California. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




After defending his featherweight title with an emphatic knockout victory over Max Holloway, Ilia Topuria decided to vacate his belt to set his sights on lightweight gold. With lightweight champion Islam Makhachev making a similar jump up to welterweight, it's opened the door for Topuria to fight for the vacant title against Charles Oliveira at UFC 317.
Get Tickets For UFC X, A Two-Day Fan Experience During International Fight Week
This will be Topuria's second fight at 155 pounds in his UFC career, his first being a thunderous knockout of Jai Herbert in 2022. If he can close out International Fight Week with a victory over Oliveira, there's a strong argument that he could be on the greatest three-fight streak in UFC history having finished both Alexander Volkanovski and Holloway in his last two bouts.