For the first time in two months, action returns to the UFC APEX this weekend for a fight card laced with competitive fights across eight divisions.
Main Event: Tatsuro Taira vs HyunSung Park
This weekend’s main event underwent a late makeover, as Tatsuro Taira will now face off with undefeated Road to UFC winner HyunSung Park.
Taira was handed the first loss of his career last October in a competitive and entertaining matchup with Brandon Royval. The 25-year-old Japanese talent is 16-1 overall, headlining for the third consecutive contest, and remains one of the top young talents in the flyweight ranks.
Duncan touches down in Las Vegas on a two-fight winning streak, having earned consecutive submission wins over Bolaji Oki and Jordan Vucenic. Just like his opponent, “The Problem” is a member of the DWCS Class of ’22 and has also gone 4-1 over his first five UFC starts to advance to 13-2 overall for his career.
It’s going to be interesting to see how this one ends up playing out, as both men have shown equal willingness to keep things standing or take things to the ground. Rebecki is the more decorated grappler of the two, while Duncan brandishes the greater power in his hands, but neither will feel uncomfortable in any setting, which should make for an entertaining scrap once the two men step in with one another this weekend.
Elves Brener vs Esteban Ribovics
All-action lightweights land on to the two fights that make up the middle of this weekend’s main card, as Elves Brener and Esteban Ribovics face off in what should be a barnburner for as long as it lasts.
A member of the Chute Boxe Diego Lima squad, Brener opened his UFC run with consecutive wins over Zubaira Tukhugov, Guram Kutateladze, and Kaynan Kruschewsky to carry a ton of momentum into his sophomore year in the Octagon last year. Unfortunately, things went sideways for the 27-year-old Brazilian, as he dropped a decision to Orolbai at UFC 301 before getting stopped by Spanish finisher Joel Álvarez in early August.
Much like Magny, Zaleski dos Santos has struggled to find routine positive results of late, entering with a 1-2-1 record over his last four and a 4-4-1 mark through his last nine appearances. Last time out, the Brazilian was felled by Chidi Njokuani, marking just the second time in his UFC career that he’s been stopped.
Which of these two stalwarts will right the ship and who will be left still looking for answers?
Danny Silva vs Kevin Vallejos
Featherweights with just a single setback on their resumes open the main card this weekend, as Danny Silva and Kevin Vallejos share the Octagon in Las Vegas.
A graduate of Season 7 of Dana White’s Contender Series, Silva has earned four straight wins, including split decision triumphs in each of his first two UFC appearances. Training under Cub Swanson, the 28-year-old has sharp boxing fundamentals and solid power, stamping him as an intriguing name to track in the 145-pound weight class.
Nakamura, who won the bantamweight competition on the first season of Road to UFC, returns for the first time since getting bounced from the ranks of the unbeaten in January when he lost to Muin Gafurov. A contestant on Season 32 of The Ultimate Fighter, Fletcher won his promotional debut against fellow TUF alum Zygimantas Ramaska, but landed on the wrong side of a split decision verdict last time out against Caolan Loughran.
Rodolfo Vieira vs Tresean Gore
Middleweights seeking a return to the win column clash here as Rodolfo Vieira meets Tresean Gore in an intriguing preliminary card pairing.
Vieira had a tidy two-fight winning streak halted back in February, dropping his record to 5-3 inside the Octagon. The same can be said of Gore, who earned consecutive wins over Josh Fremd and Antonio Trocoli before running afoul of Marco Tulio at UFC 314 in Miami.
Nick Klein vs Andrey Pulyaev
Nick Klein and Andrey Pulyaev square off here in a middleweight battle of recent DWCS grads.
Klein wrapped up last season with a first-round win over Heraldo Souza before running into the streaking Mansur Abdul-Malik in Seattle earlier this year. Pulyaev earned his place on the roster by pushing his winning streak to five last season, but then lost in his first UFC start against Christian Leroy Duncan.
Rafael Estevam vs Felipe Bunes
It’s an all-Brazilian battle in the flyweight division as Rafael Estevam and Felipe Bunes share the Octagon on Saturday.
The 28-year-old Estevam enters with an unblemished professional record, having earned victories in each of his first two UFC appearances to advance to 13-0 for his career. Bunes landed opposite surging contender Joshua Van in his promotional debut, but rebounded with a slick first-round submission win over Jose Johnson last time out.
Piera Rodriguez vs Kelten Souza
Piera Rodriguez and Ketlen Souza meet in this clash of strawweights looking to establish where they stand in the talent-rich 115-pound weight class.
Rodriguez halted a two-fight skid with a dominant decision win over Josefine Knutsson on the final fight card of 2024, moving her to 3-2 inside the Octagon and 10-2 overall. Souza earned a pair of wins last year, including a punishing first-round “club and sub” finish of Yazmin Jauregui, but landed on the wrong side of the cards against Angela Hill earlier this year.