Nobody wants to see a dominant champion’s reign end via something outside of their control, but that is part of the fight game, and that’s the situation at hand after Alexandre Pantoja injured his elbow early in his fight with Joshua Van.
Van, now the second-youngest male champion in UFC history, can only control what is in his power, and luckily for him, he has a few options to go to as he seeks to carve out his own legacy as the king.
This is where we stand in the flyweight division:
Last Fight: TKO Win vs Alexandre Pantoja (12/6/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: While winning a title via an injury is never ideal, Van put himself in position to win the belt with the work he did before facing Pantoja at UFC 323. The 24-year-old made his eye-popping 10th walk to the Octagon since joining the roster in June 2023, and in the fight game, an athlete can create their own luck when they are opportunistic. It’s presumed Pantoja will get a crack at winning his belt back whenever he is healthy, but Van could face anyone from Tatsuro Taira to the winner of Brandon Royval and Manel Kape’s 2025 finale in his first defense in the meantime.
Last Fight: TKO Loss vs Joshua Van (12/6/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Pantoja seemed unstoppable since winning the title in July 2023, to the point where people were genuinely debating if he was the best to ever do it at 125 pounds despite Demetrious Johnson’s lengthy resume. That conversation got put on hold in T-Mobile Arena, and it is unclear how long Pantoja will need to come back at full strength. However, he has earned the right to fight for the belt immediately upon his return, no matter who holds the belt.
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Loss vs Joshua Van (6/28/2025)
Next fight: vs Manel Kape (12/13/2025)
Outlook: "Raw Dawg” risked his ranking to accept a fight against Van at International Fight Week and did exactly what is expected when he steps into the Octagon: put on a show. The self-described “most exciting flyweight in the UFC” stood toe-to-toe with the now-champion before ultimately falling via a close decision. The bout remains one of the best of 2025, and if Royval can best Kape to end the year, he could put himself in pole position for a title shot, considering he owns a split-decision win over Taira from October 2024.
Last Fight: TKO Win vs Brandon Moreno (12/6/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Taira graduated from prospect to legitimate contender about a year ago, but a TKO win over one of the defining flyweight champions of the last five years puts that status in amber. Taira never looked out of place or uncomposed against “The Assassin Baby,” and he is now the clubhouse leader for Japan’s best hope at a UFC champion.
Last Fight: TKO Loss vs Tatsuro Taira (12/6/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Moreno couldn’t help but look at the referee and wonder whether the stoppage against Taira came too early, but ultimately, Mexico’s former champion now has some work to do before getting back into title contention. Still just 32 but with real miles on the tires, Moreno will likely need to string together a couple of wins in 2026 before earning a shot at the title. He has pedigree on his side, and Pantoja is no longer in the way for the time being, so Moreno remains a real player at 125 pounds.
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Loss vs Brandon Moreno (11/2/2024)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Albazi remains in the wilderness following an injury-induced layoff and his loss to Moreno in 2024. Albazi was supposed to face Taira in a main event in August before injury prevented his return, so he’ll have to string together some consistency to garner the momentum he had after he beat Kai Kara-France back in 2023.
Outlook: Manel Kape appears to have put everything together, and if he can put something spectacular on display to end UFC’s schedule in 2025. He looked better than ever in back-to-back stoppage wins over Bruno Silva and Asu Almabayev, and if he can do something similar against Royval, he has a real opportunity to fight for gold in 2026.
Two fighters on the outside looking in are Asu Almabayev and Kyoji Horiguchi. Almabayev is creating serious momentum for himself after submitting Alex Perez in Qatar. Since joining the promotion in August 2023, he is 6-1 with his lone loss coming to Kape. Meanwhile, Horiguchi threw his name back into the mix with a dominant return victory over Tagir Ulanbekov in Doha. Either man could string together two or three wins and break into the title picture next year.