Zachary Reese may not have learned the perils of returning to a Mexican restaurant in Thailand after getting food poisoning there the first time, but as far as the middleweight prospect’s MMA career is concerned, he’s right where he needs to be after a solid 2024.
Please enable Javascript to view this content
“I got to train with a few UFC guys and yeah, it was good,” he said of his time in Thailand. “I stayed healthy the whole trip, and it's funny, but I go there now, and it's just strictly business. I just train and then I hang out in the hotel. I watched all of ‘Peaky Blinders’ in my free time, this trip out there.”
He also dodged diaper duties for his youngest daughter.
“That’s purely circumstantial,” Reese laughs, clearly in good spirits before he faces Bekoev, who replaces Sedriques Dumas in the UFC 311 bout. An opponent change is an inconvenience, but Reese realizes that the person across from him on fight night doesn’t matter as much as the man in the mirror.
“I definitely think about the possibilities and stuff, but also, at the same time, I don't get ahead of myself,” he said. “I'm training to be the best in the world and fight the best in the world and beat the best in the world. But it's part of the mindfulness. I'm really just focusing every day, day to day on winning the day, having great productive days, and stacking those little wins over and over again. And I know where that's going to get me. It'll get me fighting these guys that I looked up to a lot before I was in the UFC or before I was even a professional.”
If you haven’t picked up on it by now, Reese is must-see TV every time he steps into the Octagon. And with two of his three UFC bouts in arenas, and another one coming up this Saturday, it looks like the promotion wants him to be seen by a wider audience. 
“I do get the feeling that the UFC is really giving me these great opportunities for exposure,” he said. “And I think that's because when people get to know me, they can relate to me. And I am the average UFC fan. I went to Buffalo Wild Wings with my parents and watched the fights and obsessively could tell you everything about every fighter. And then there’s my style; I’m always looking for finishes. I'm always going out there and trying to put guys away because that's what those fighters I grew up admiring did. And I put it in my mind that that's how I wanted to fight. And I think that is going to resonate with the fans because I just want to be the fighter that I want to watch. I want to be a fighter's fighter.”