After suffering a difficult setback against Khamzat Chimaev last October, Robert Whittaker returns to action at UFC Abu Dhabi looking to remind the world what he’s capable of.


 
Rather than dwell on the loss, the former middleweight champion took some time to reflect before returning to the gym with renewed focus. Defeats have been few and far between for Whittaker, who hasn’t lost back-to-back fights in over a decade. He’s made a career out of learning and coming back stronger from defeat, and he’ll look to do it once again when he faces Reinier de Ridder in Saturday’s main event.
Saturday's Full Fight Card Preview
“Unfortunately, I’ve always been the type to learn the hard way,” Whittaker told UFC.com. “I take a lot from every loss. I’m a very reflective person. After a fight, we go back to the gym, we sit around, talk about what we liked, what we didn’t like. I look at the bigger picture. I look at my physicality, I look at my mental state and see what I could’ve changed and what I could’ve done differently. Then just get back on the horse.
“I was asking for a fight much sooner. It is what it is, the division was tied up. Then his name popped up, I saw the location, I love fighting here, as well, so everything just fell into place.”











                        Robert Whittaker takes a photo with fans at UFC Abu Dhabi Open Workouts, July 2025 (Photo by Maddie Roth/Zuffa LLC)
              




At the start of this year, de Ridder may not even have been on Whittaker’s radar. The former ONE middleweight and light heavyweight champion made his UFC debut just nine months ago, but three straight finishes have quickly led him to a date with “The Reaper.”
MORE UFC ABU DHABI: Tabatha Ricci Returns | Amanda Ribas Interview | Rising Stars | Petr Yan's Ambition | Marcus McGhee Interview
“Anyone that’s done their research knows he’s been fighting on the track for a long time,” Whittaker said. “He’s had multiple belts in other organizations. He’s fought a lot of high-level dudes, a lot of five rounders. He’s as experienced as I am. I expect nothing less. I expect a hard fight come Saturday. I’ve trained and prepared accordingly, so I’m looking forward to it.”
“He’s got a very particular skill set and a very particular way of fighting. If he enforces that on you, if he executes his gameplan and you let him do what he wants, he wins fights.”



 









Robert Whittaker | Greatest Hits 


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Robert Whittaker | Greatest Hits 
      





























 / 

Live

























































De Ridder scored submission wins over UFC veteran Gerald Meerschaert and fan-favorite Kevin Holland, then halted the rise of prospect Bo Nickal with a second-round TKO in May. While all impressive results against quality opposition, Whittaker believes none of them compare to the challenge de Ridder will face in Abu Dhabi.
GET YOUR TICKETS: UFC Abu Dhabi | UFC 319 | UFC Shanghai | UFC Paris
“No one’s ever fought people like me,” Whittaker said. “I like to think that I’m special and I’m going to get in there and show him the difference.
“Just go in there and make him pay for every inch he tries to take and, honestly, just hit him. Get my mitts on him, stuff his takedowns. Everything he wants to do, don’t let him.”












                        Robert Whittaker celebrates his TKO victory over Derek Brunson in their middleweight bout during the UFC Fight Night event at Rod Laver Arena on November 27, 2016 in Melbourne, Australia. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




At this stage of his career, Robert Whittaker remains focused on the same goal he’s chased since his 2019 loss to Israel Adesanya: reclaiming the UFC middleweight title. At just 34 years old, he still has plenty of time, but to stay in the hunt, he first needs to halt the momentum of another rising contender inside Etihad Arena on July 26.
UFC 320 & UFC 321 Headliners Announced
“The doors at middleweight are always open,” Whittaker said. “An opportunity presents itself every time you win. I just got to go in there, stick to the task, execute my game and see what happens.
“I want to finish on top. I want to reclaim the gold, I want to fight (Champion) Dricus (Du Plessis) again, I want to make amends with myself, and then I want to sail off into the sunset. I’m fighting for that fairytale ending.”



 





UFC Fight Night: Whittaker vs De Ridder took place live from Etihad Arena in Abu Dhabi on July 26, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          UFC Abu Dhabi