Oh, lord.
In a sport full of personalities ranging from the boisterous to the meek, there isn’t anyone quite like Jean Silva. 


 
At any point, the Brazilian can be seen (and heard) barking like a dog one moment and sobbing (tears of joy or sorrow) the next. Some might brush it off as “crazy” or “wild,” but to know Silva’s story is to understand the place of gratitude from which he operates. It’s a past which includes losing his brother more than 10 years ago as well as seeing his mother attacked. He eventually found his way to a more joyful life, though. With the help of his wife, Carol, mixed martial arts provided Silva a place to excel and find joy, as well as a second family in The Fighting Nerds. Silva has spoken openly and lovingly toward each of his teammates, particularly Mauricio Ruffy, who cared for and listened to Silva when “Lord” hit a particularly low point.
MORE NOCHE UFC: Fight By Fight Preview | Fighters On The Rise | Representing Mexico
That’s why, partially, at least, Silva exudes all his emotions as they come.  











                        Jean Silva of Brazil reacts after a submission victory against Bryce Mitchell in a featherweight bout during the UFC 314 event at Kaseya Center on April 12, 2025 in Miami, Florida. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




“What they can't realize is that I love everything in there,” Silva told UFC.com. “I love everything that happens in the Octagon, the way it happens. Even when they are beating me up, I think it's very cool. That's my life. People see my happiness when I'm beating people up, but I'm also happy when I get hit; when (Drew) Dober punched me, I love it so much. When Charles (Jourdain) kicked my head, took me down... I love it. This is not a problem.”
Of course, it’s a little easier to enjoy moments of adversity when you’re confident you can turn things around in your favor and in style. Since earning his UFC contract on Dana White’s Contender Series in 2023, Silva picked up five finishes in as many fights to climb his way into the featherweight rankings.
FOLLOW @UFCNEWS: On Facebook | On Instagram | On X | On Threads
His most recent outing was arguably his finest. Silva sought out a matchup with Bryce Mitchell, taking exception with a few things Mitchell had said in the media. Before the two stepped into the Octagon, Silva was on Mitchell, egging him on and taunting him (with the help of several barking fans) during a pre-fight press conference in Las Vegas. And the mind games continued well into the fight, with Silva begging Mitchell to shoot for takedowns while also pleading with the American to touch gloves to open each round. 











                        ean Silva of Brazil punches Bryce Mitchell in a featherweight bout during the UFC 314 event at Kaseya Center on April 12, 2025 in Miami, Florida. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




All of that taunting could have easily drawn the fighter wayward, but not Silva. Instead, he wrapped up a wicked-tight ninja choke to put Mitchell to sleep midway through the second round. It was a performance in every sense of the word, one that had some believing Silva could work his way into a title fight within the next year.
The next step on that ladder is to shine under a main event spotlight, which is what brings Silva to San Antonio opposite fellow Brazilian Diego Lopes. The high-stakes nature of the bout—the winner is right around the next title shot—might lead some to take a more business-like approach to things. Not Silva, though. Rather, it is business as usual.
MORE SILVA: Journey To Main Event | View Silva's Athlete Profile
“There's no pressure,” he said. “I felt pressure before, when me and my wife had to work, when I was working as a delivery driver on my motorcycle, when I worked in construction or when I used to sell clothes. Back then I felt the pressure. Here, no pressure at all.”
The 28-year-old is keen to make a statement, to announce himself as a future champion. He also hopes to pick up the spirits of his fellow Fighting Nerds after Caio Borralho and Mauricio Ruffy after they suffered losses in Paris. Silva is adamant nothing will ever come between his teammates and is hopeful he will get the San Antonio crowd on the glasses-wearing side of things at night’s end. 











                        Jean Silva of Brazil elbows Melsik Baghdasaryan of Armenia in a featherweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at Climate Pledge Arena on February 22, 2025 in Seattle, Washington. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




All signs point toward an action-packed bout. Silva and Lopes combine for 37 finishes between them and they bring forward-focused styles into the Octagon, which is part of why Silva is steadfast about the result on September 13, predicting that he will add another knockout to his tally.
After that? There is only one thing left: gold.
TWO EPIC EVENTS SEPT. 13: Noche UFC & Canelo vs Crawford
“There are two points: either I get the title afterwards, or I get the title afterwards,” Silva said. “That's the thing: my next fight will be for the belt. If it will be against Lerone Murphy or (Alexander) Volkanovski, it doesn't matter. I'm the next champion. If I have to face Murphy, no problem. I'm sure I'm the next champion.
“That's something people still don't get. I'm sure I'm the next champion. And there will only be another one after I retire.”




Noche UFC: Lopes vs Silva took place live Frost Bank Center in San Antonio, Texas on September 13,2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          Noche UFC