What’s old is new again as Alexander Volkanovski turned back the clock and turned back a fierce effort from Diego Lopes to regain the featherweight title in Miami. The win was gritty rather than dominant, but, in the end, “The Great” got his hand raised for the first time since 2023.
Although some familiar faces remain in the division’s title picture, a newer crop of challengers awaits Volkanovski, who is keen to get back to his busy schedule of defending the title.
This is where we stand in the featherweight division.
Champion: Alexander Volkanovski
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Diego Lopes (4/12/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: The 36-year-old Volkanovski made history in not only regaining the belt, but by winning a title fight past the age of 35. The win didn’t come without its shaky moments, however. Volkanovski needed to recover from a knockdown suffered at the end of the second round, as well as a shot that compromised his vision in the fourth. However, his Fight IQ, toughness and determination shined bright en route to another victory. Now just one short of tying José Aldo for the most title fight wins in the division’s history, Volkanovski hopes to defend his belt often once healed up. Whether that comes against streaking contenders like Movsar Evloev and Lerone Murphy or someone else on the rise, he has plenty of eager challengers awaiting their call.
1) Max Holloway
Last Fight: KO Loss vs Ilia Topuria (10/26/2024)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: After losing to Ilia Topuria in Abu Dhabi, Holloway announced his departure from the division for the similarly competitive pastures of 155 pounds. The former featherweight champion has yet to land an opponent, but his days at 145 seem complete.
2) Diego Lopes
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Loss vs Alexander Volkanovski (4/12/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Although Lopes fell short in his bid for the title, he showed he is every bit the dangerous and dynamic threat to the best in the world. With his fight-ending power and slick grappling skills, he makes for a lethal puzzle to solve. Now, as he looks to navigate his next move, he has plenty of options. A brewing beef with Yair Rodriguez boiled over at the UFC 314 press conference, and that could shape up well for a fight down the road. Otherwise, a rematch with Movsar Evloev or a fight against someone looking for one last fight to get into a title fight like Lerone Murphy could make sense, as well.
3) Ilia Topuria
Last Fight: Knockout Win vs Max Holloway (10/26/2024)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Topuria’s spectacular 2024 campaign ended up being his swan song to the featherweight division. “El Matador” vacated the featherweight throne and announced his intention to compete in the lightweight division, so it appears as though Topuria’s title-winning knockout over Max Holloway was his final bout at 145 pounds.
T-4) Movsar Evloev
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Aljamain Sterling (12/7/2024)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Call him the dark horse, the boogeyman or the next in line, Movsar Evloev has done everything in his power to become undeniable in his bid for a title shot. Nine wins in nine walks to the Octagon, including wins over Lopes, Arnold Allen and Aljamain Sterling, is the resume of a bonafide title challenger, but his unspectacular decision results have hindered his profile in the eyes of some fans. Much like Magomed Ankalaev, Belal Muhammad and Lerone Murphy before him in recent memory, Evloev will need some things to fall into place before he finally gets his crack at gold, but the 31-year-old is certainly a major player in the mix.
T-4) Yair Rodriguez
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Patricio Pitbull (4/12/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: “El Pantera” arguably put together his most complete performance to-date as he welcomed Patricio Pitbull to the UFC. From his always-dynamic striking to sharp grappling, Rodriguez impressed in Miami. Volkanovski winning the title put his bid for another shot at undisputed gold in limbo, but there is a storyline ripe for the taking against Diego Lopes, especially with UFC’s event in Guadalajara coming in September. If not Lopes, Rodriguez could fight the likes of Evloev, Murphy or someone rising up the rankings as he hopes to stack wins for his resume.
In the Mix: Lerone Murphy, Jean Silva, Aaron Pico
Outlook: On a star-making night for many, perhaps no fighter did better for himself in the lead-up to UFC 314 than Jean Silva. The Fighting Nerd shocked, awed and impressed in his submission win over Bryce Mitchell, showcasing the skills, power and showmanship that makes a fighter an easy fan favorite. Although some called for him to get a crack at the featherweight elite, he has plenty of peers to get past.
One of those established presences is Lerone Murphy, who is fresh off his second main event win as he bested Josh Emmett in Las Vegas at the beginning of April. Murphy, somewhat similar to Evloev, has done nothing but win. However, he hasn’t captivated audiences. The results are the results, and Murphy is at least deserving of a No. 1 contender bout, if not a shot at Volkanovski if timing works in his favor.
Finally, the signing of Aaron Pico is a major factor in the featherweight division. The 28-year-old built his reputation in other organizations, showing off real punching power to go along with his wrestling acumen. It is not yet clear who his debut will come against, but of the recent major signings to the promotion, Pico, given his age, is arguably the most interesting of the last few years.
Image caption: Alexander Volkanovski of Australia punches Diego Lopes of Brazil in the UFC featherweight championship bout during the UFC 314 event at Kaseya Center on April 12, 2025 in Miami, Florida. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
Image caption: Max Holloway punches Ilia Topuria of Spain in the UFC featherweight championship fight during the UFC 308 event at Etihad Arena on October 26, 2024 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
Image caption: Diego Lopes of Brazil punches Alexander Volkanovski of Australia in the UFC featherweight championship bout during the UFC 314 event at Kaseya Center on April 12, 2025 in Miami, Florida. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
Image caption: Ilia Topuria of Spain punches Max Holloway in the UFC featherweight championship fight during the UFC 308 event at Etihad Arena on October 26, 2024 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
Image caption: Movsar Evloev of Russia reacts after his victory against Arnold Allen of England in a featherweight bout during the UFC 297 event at Scotiabank Arena on January 20, 2024 in Toronto, Ontario. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
Image caption: Yair Rodriguez of Mexico kicks Chan Sung Jung of South Korea in their featherweight bout during the UFC Fight Night event inside Pepsi Center on November 10, 2018 in Denver, Colorado. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
Image caption: Lerone Murphy of England kicks Dan Ige in a featherweight fight during the UFC 308 event at Etihad Arena on October 26, 2024 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)