Randy Brown earned his opportunity to compete in the UFC with a victory in front of Dana White and the Lookin’ for a Fight crew in November 2015. Unbeaten at the time, the Queens-based welterweight joined the roster alongside two other promising newcomers, Sage Northcutt, who debuted a few months earlier at UFC 192 in Houston, and Mickey Gall, who scored a win alongside Brown on the Ring of Combat show White and company were attending.
Now in his 10th year on the roster and through 20 appearances inside the Octagon, Brown has easily established himself as not only the top talent from that initial triumvirate of talent to graduate from the early days of the talent search series, but one of the top welterweights on the roster.
Though he lost his second UFC appearance and was just 3-2 after his initial five starts, he passed Gall by beating him by unanimous decision in a “New York vs. New Jersey” showdown at Madison Square Garden at UFC 217. Northcutt never really made it to his radar, only periodically venturing up to welterweight, where he largely struggled before parting ways with the promotion. 
Since those early years, the soon-to-be 35-year-old has been on a slow and steady climb, continuing to hone his skills and inch forward in the loaded welterweight class, establishing himself as one of the top unranked talents in the division.
Not that the fact that he’s yet to carry a number next to his name sits well with him.
“Nine years, not ranked,” he said, shaking his head. “Jack (Della Maddalena) beat me, and he got ranked No. 12. The only guy that truly beat me in the last five years is Jack, and he’s the champion now.”
With his sights set on a fall return, the veteran welterweight is hopeful that his performance against Dalby and the message he received from UFC matchmaker Sean Shelby following the contest land him the kind of fight he’s hoping for — one against an established name that will get him where he’s looking to go.
“That Battle fight f***** me over a little bit, but I didn’t lose any momentum,” he said. “I fought this dude, and I shut him out, knocked him out; a dude that never gets finished. Sean came backstage and said, ‘Your next fight is gonna be something big.’
“But I’ve gotta go out there and just continue to do what I do; I just need the opportunity,” Brown added. “Something big next and if I can have that similar performance…”
As his words trailed off, he shook his head, a mix of hopeful excitement and anticipation of a moment still too far away to touch.
For now, the focus is on letting his hand heal and continuing to stay sharp in the interim, with that positive outlook continuing to keep him center on the mission at hand, rather than the frustrations on the periphery.
“It’s annoying, but we’ll see what happens,” he said of having to bide his time. “At the end of the day, it works to my benefit a little because I’m a guy that never takes my foot off the gas — I’m in the gym with one hand hitting the bag.
“So it’s only giving me more time to get better.”