The fact that this weekend marks just the third time the UFC has brought an event to Iowa and the first visit in 25 years feels crazy given the massive impact the state had on the promotion at the tail end of the SEG era and first several years under Zuffa.
Main Event: Cory Sandhagen vs Deiveson Figueiredo
Location: Wells Fargo Arena — Des Moines, Iowa
Where to Watch: ESPN2 / ESPN+
Other Main Card Matches:
• Reinier de Ridder vs Bo Nickal
• Santiago Ponzinibbio vs Daniel Rodriguez
• Montel Jackson vs Daniel Marcos
• Yana Santos vs Miesha Tate 
Prelim Matches:
• Cameron Smotherman vs Serhiy Sidey
• Jeremy Stephens vs Mason Jones
• Thomas Petersen vs Don’Tale Mayes
• Gaston Bolaños vs Quang Le
• Marina Rodriguez vs Gillian Robertson
• Ryan Loder vs Azamat Bekoev
• Juliana Miller vs Ivana Petrovic 
Main Event: Cory Sandhagen vs Deiveson Figueiredo
Veteran welterweights Santiago Ponzinibbio and Daniel Rodriguez meet in a clash of divisional stalwarts looking to build off wins in their most recent appearances. 
Ponzinibbio snapped a two-fight skid and picked up just his third win in the last four years with a third-round stoppage win over Carlston Harris in January. The Argentine remains a durable and dangerous presence in the “Second 15” of the welterweight ranks, and is looking to earn consecutive victories for the first time since winning seven straight prior to his two-year absence between 2019 and 2021. 
Rodriguez got things moving in the right direction again in mid-October, edging out Alex Morono on the scorecards to halt a three-fight losing streak. He’s faced a steady diet of tough assignments over the last several years, including Neil Magny, Ian Machado Garry, and Kelvin Gastelum, going 8-4 through his first dozen trips into the Octagon.
Montel Jackson vs Daniel Marcos
Dana White’s Contender Series alums Cameron Smotherman and Serhiy Sidey face off in this bantamweight meeting of prospects looking to build upon their first UFC victories. 
Smotherman turned a short-notice opportunity into a victory last fall as “The Baby-Faced Killer” out-hustled Jake Hadley to earn his fourth straight victory. After landing on the wrong side of a split decision verdict in his debut at UFC 297, Sidey ventured to Edmonton in November and posted his first UFC win, edging out Garrett Armfield on the scorecards. 
Jeremy Stephens vs Mason Jones
It’s a clash of returning competitors as Iowa native Jeremy Stephens and Wales’ Mason Jones lock horns in what should be an absolute firefight this weekend in Des Moines.
Competing in MMA for the first time in more than two years and fighting in the UFC for the first time in almost four years, Stephens looks to collect his first victory inside the Octagon since knocking out Josh Emmett as he fights in front of a partisan crowd this weekend. Jones went 1-2 with a no contest in his first four UFC appearances before returning to Cage Warriors, working on some things, and posting four wins in as many starts to earn a call back to the big show. 
Thomas Petersen vs Don’Tale Mayes
Heavyweights looking to stem the tide share the Octagon here, as Thomas Petersen takes on Don’Tale Mayes in this preliminary card fixture.
Peterson scored an impressive submission win on Dana White’s Contender Series to earn his place on the roster, but has gone 1-2 over his first three UFC starts, most recently getting stopped in the first round by Shamil Gaziev. Mayes has made 11 appearances since earning his place on the UFC roster, posting a 4-6 mark with one no contest, and enters Saturday’s bout having dropped two straight and three of his last four. 
Gaston Bolaños vs Quang Le
The first of the night’s five bantamweight contests pits Gaston Bolanos against Quang Le. 
Bolanos has alternated results through his first three appearances inside the Octagon, having earned decision wins over Aaron Phillips and Cortavious Romious on either side of a loss to Marcus McGhee. Le impressed in a short-notice loss to Chris Gutierrez in his debut, but faltered in his sophomore appearance as well, leaving him eager to halt his two-fight slide here.
Marina Rodriguez vs Gillian Robertson
It’s a clash of ranked strawweights on Saturday’s prelims as Marina Rodriguez takes on the streaking Gillian Robertson. 
A top contender for a number of years, Rodriguez, who turns 38 on April 29, enters having dropped each of her last two outings by split decision, and having just one win in her last five fights. Conversely, Robertson arrives in Iowa on the best run of her UFC career, having earned three straight wins and victories in four of five since returning to the 115-pound weight class at the start of 2023. 
Ryan Loder vs Azamat Bekoev
TUF 32 middleweight winner Ryan Loder and former LFA champ Azamat Bekoev clash in this meeting of 185-pound talents looking to start making a move up the divisional ladder in 2025.
Loder dominated his bout with Robert Valentin in August to win the middleweight tournament and advance his record to 8-1 overall. Bekoev pushed his winning streak to seven with a first-round stoppage win over Zach Reese in his promotional debut at UFC 311 in January.
Juliana Miller vs Ivana Petrovic
TUF 30 winner Juliana Miller returns to action for the first time in 21 months, facing off with Ivana Petrovic in Saturday’s opener. 
The 28-year-old Miller hasn’t fought since August 2023 after having major arm surgery following her first-round stoppage loss to Luana Santos. Petrovic earned her first UFC win last April, but landed on the wrong side of a split decision verdict against Jamey-Lyn Horth in November to fall to 7-2 overall.