On the morning of the fight he’d been chasing for more than two-and-a-half years, Kyle Daukaus woke up riddled with stress and anxiety. Sitting in his hotel room in Shanghai, China, just a handful of hours before he was set to make the walk to the Octagon for the first time since December 3, 2022, the Philadelphia native was listening to a distressing series of questions and comments play on a loop in his head.
That’s when the self-doubt soundtrack blaring in his head got cranked up to 11, carrying him to some thoughts that no one wants to be wrestling with in the period before they make arguably the most important walk of their professional career.
“Dealing with it is tough,” admitted Daukaus. “You go to some dark places in your head, like, ‘You know you’re gonna get knocked out. You’re gonna lose. What’s the point of flying here? Why did you fly to China? You flew 15 hours just to lose a fight?’ But I was like, ‘Screw all that! This is excitement, this is joy; I’m happy to be here. I know I have a good opponent in front of me, but I know I can run through him.’
“As soon as they were like, ‘You’re up next,’ a switch flipped in my head and I was ready,” he added with a laugh. “I felt great. I was good to go. Mentally I was all there, the fight happened, and it was just crazy.”
Soon after eating a hand kick to the body, Daukaus put a left hand on Pereira’s jaw that sent the Brazilian crashing to the canvas in a heap. The returning middleweight instantly pounced, unloading a series of unanswered punches and elbows that eventually put “Demolidor” to sleep and ended the fight.
While he took a step back from consuming MMA content and turned down several invites to pay-per-view parties with friends, Daukaus was still very much in the gym, keeping himself prepared, and when he stepped back into the cage, he thrived. He returned to Cage Fighting Fury Championships (CFFC), the outstanding Northeastern US promotion where he reigned as middleweight champion before his initial UFC call-up, and reclaimed the belt in his second fight back to wrap up a successful 2023 campaign.
Last year, Daukaus posted back-to-back stoppage wins while defending his title, fighting with the kind of unshakable confident that had previously escape him whenever he stepped into the Octagon. When he got the call to face Pereira, he was preparing to defend his title again, and was already physically at the point that he was ready to compete. Though the nerves and negative thoughts that plagued him all the way up to the minute he stepped through the curtain and started making the walk in Shanghai might suggest otherwise, Daukaus was, truly, more prepared mentally as well.
When his contract wasn’t renewed, one of the things the Forge MMA representative did was search to find examples of athletes that had exited the UFC, returned, and found success, with the foremost example being flyweight Brandon Moreno, who rose to the top of the division less than two years after returning and a touch over three years after his initial run came to an end.
As Daukaus in the midst of his run of success on the regional circuit, Youssef Zalal re-emerged in the featherweight division, posting a submission win over Billy Quarantillo in his short-notice comeback fight. Earlier this year, “The Moroccan Devil” registered a unanimous decision win over Calvin Kattar to push his record to 4-0 since returning to the UFC and earn himself a place in the Top 15 in the 145-pound weight class.
“The first thing I looked up was ‘Who are guys that got re-signed that are doing well?’” he said with a laugh. “I think Youssef might have gotten signed my second or third fight outside of the UFC — it wasn’t that long ago — so I was like, ‘These guys are doing it, so there is no reason I can’t do it too.’
“My wife is due the first week or second week of December,” said the proud and expecting father, who is readying to welcome a second boy to the mix later this year. “My first son was five weeks early, and I feel like this one will maybe be here early too, so he could potentially be here Thanksgiving.
“I know there’s (Madison Square Garden) on the 15th, a couple cards in December,” he added. "I’ve talked to my wife already and she understands and said, ‘If a fight comes, you take it, you fight’ because this is what I do for a living, and we’ll figure it out with the baby, so I’m hoping to get on that MSG card or something even in December.”
Thought the idea of “The D’arce Knight” fighting in Gotham feels fitting, the truth is that whenever that assignment comes, whoever it is against Daukaus will be dialled in and ready to continue proving to himself and everyone else that this second run is going to be different.
“I want to challenge myself — that’s what this sport is about is challenging yourself,” he said. “I think I’m ready for it, I’m mature enough for it, and I’m completely different person now, so I’ll take whoever they give me next.”