When Kelvin Gastelum first learned his epic interim title fight with Israel Adesanya from UFC 236 was going to be inducted into the Fight Wing of the UFC Hall of Fame this year during International Fight Week, the Ultimate Fighter Season 17 winner both honored and a little surprised. On one hand, being a part of an iconic fight that finds its way into the annals of history is a rare honor, and one that he did not and does not take lightly, however, as an active competitor, the 33-year-old middleweight is still exclusively focused on what’s in front of him, not what’s behind him.
“I love coming out to compete in Texas; any time I’ve been out here, the crowds have been amazing and the people really come out and show love,” added Gastelum, who earned his third UFC victory in San Antonio. “I’ve been wanting to come out and compete out here again for while and it just so happens to be at a great event like Noche UFC. I owe the Mexican people a fight — I kind of left them hanging in Mexico City — so hopefully we can make up for that this weekend.”
Though he has larger goals and an unwavering belief that he can still do some big things within the division, the reality is that Gastelum heads into the weekend once again looking to hit the reset button and start anew.
It’s an all-too-familiar position for the 12-year UFC veteran, and the cache of memories he needs to set aside or permanently delete ahead of each bout continues to grow. But ultimately, the process of building momentum, stacking wins, and taking aim at those goals he still has starts with one quality outing, and Gastelum is confident that journey begins this weekend in San Antonio.
“Just believing in my purpose and having faith in myself, in the unknown,” he said, explaining his process for leaving everything that is behind him there when he makes the walk this weekend. “Just going out there to execute is my mindset. Forgetting the past is difficult, but I know what I need to do and I need to execute; that’s it.”
And what does he expect from himself should that come to pass this weekend?
“Oh man,” he said, his ever-present smile growing wider, “it’s gonna look like Vintage KG. I’m excited.”