Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.
Heading into this weekend’s UFC 319 middleweight championship fight between Dricus Du Plessis and Khamzat Chimaev, Kyte sat down with Xtreme Couture head coach Eric Nicksick, who guided Sean Stickland into battle with the South African middleweight champion on two occasions, to get his thoughts on what each man brings to the Octagon and how this fight may shake out on Saturday night at United Center.
Best Trait of Each Fighter
Kyte: Given that you’ve been in the opposite corner for two of Dricus’ last two fights, it only made sense to reach out to you for this one, so let’s dive right into it — what’s the best trait of each guy?
Nicksick: So for Dricus, it’s his pressure and his pace. We’ve all seen it, we’ve all said it — his striking looks awkward and funky — but what he does really well is stay busy, keep throwing things, and he’s able to do that for five rounds.
If he can do that, then we get see how Chimaev looks against an elite fighter, someone that has shown he can have success in those later rounds in those spots where we’ve seen him slow down before.
Kyte: Who dictates that more to you? Here’s what I mean: those two things are connected — the early blitz from Khamzat, the need for Dricus to survive and take him into deep waters — but does one guy have a greater say, I guess, in determining whether or not that happens?
Nicksick: I don’t know if one guy has a greater say, but the offensive guy always has the edge, right?
Dricus can defend and make the right decisions and concede positions, but that all works in Khamzat’s favor, and if he can suffocate him early — chain wrestle, control him, keep him from getting into any kind of rhythm at all in those first couple rounds — it makes it more difficult for Dricus to just come out in the third or fourth if it gets there and just get rolling.
It’s hard to be down 2-0, have a guy all over you, and then come out and just take it to him. Not that he can’t do it, but it’s difficult, especially when it’s a guy like Khamzat that you’re dealing with on the ground, you know?
Kyte: Yeah, that makes sense.
One Coaching Curiosity
Kyte: So then what’s your point of curiosity here? What’s something about this matchup, this fight, how it plays out that you’re thinking about, that you want to see that falls outside of the standard stuff we usually talk about?
Nicksick: So Khamzat has been working with Coach Cal at The Treigning Lab in Orange County…
Kyte: The place (TJ) Dillashaw and those guys did all their cardio and conditioning and stuff? It’s Sam Calavitta, right?
Nicksick: Yep. He’s been out there with (Aaron) Pico and them, and I’m told he’s made significant cardio strides working with Coach Cal, focusing on extended high-intensity intervals, oxygen efficiency drills, and sport-specific endurance circuits.