Despite a valiant effort from Manon Fiorot, Valentina Shevchenko started her second reign as flyweight champion like she never left. The 25-minute affair was an intriguing chess match but, ultimately, “Bullet” made the better adjustments late to stamp yet another title defense to her name.
A SuperFight might be on the horizon as strawweight champion Zhang Weili continues to call for a champ-vs-champ bout, but a handful of young and hungry contenders are circling as well.
This is where we stand in the women’s flyweight division:
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Manon Fiorot (5/10/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Shevchenko looked like her usual sharp self for the majority of her successful title defense against Fiorot. Her counterstriking game was as punishing as ever, and when Fiorot tested her physicality, the 37-year-old stood up to the challenge. As usual, Shevchenko didn’t single anyone out for her next bout, but many are hoping for a SuperFight between her and Zhang. Considering that there is not yet a clear No. 1 contender at 125 pounds, one could argue the timing for such a bout is ideal.
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Alexa Grasso (5/10/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: In a breakout performance, Brazil’s Natalia Silva put on a dizzying striking performance against former champion Alexa Grasso. The 28-year-old was a puzzle of constant movement, feints and wicked-fast kicks that left Grasso reaching without much success. The victory was Silva’s seventh in as many jaunts to the Octagon and 13th overall win in a row dating back to March 2018. If the win over Grasso wasn’t enough to push her into a title fight, however, beating the winner of Erin Blanchfield and Maycee Barber’s bout could be exactly that. She could also face Fiorot or, if Rose Namajunas beats Miranda Maverick in June, face another former champion to add more juice to her resume.
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Loss vs Valentina Shevchenko (5/10/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: France’s Fiorot fought well against Shevchenko but ultimately wasn’t able to dethrone the longtime flyweight queen. The loss was the first in seven years for “The Beast,” and her next move is rather unclear. She’ll need to string together a few wins if Shevchenko remains the champion, but if someone else is able to take out Shevchenko, she holds as quality a resume as anyone in the top 5, including wins over Blanchfield, Namajunas and Katlyn Cerminara. If Barber gets past Blanchfield, that fight could make sense, as could a matchup with former champion Alexa Grasso or the surging Jasmine Jasudavicius.
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Loss vs Natalia Silva (5/10/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Grasso seemed a step behind Silva in Montreal, and the former flyweight champion has suddenly gone more than two years without a victory. She remains a fixture in the division’s elite, however, and any fighter hoping to work toward gold will eagerly raise their hand to fight her because of her accolades. That next fight could come against anyone from Jasudavicius to Fiorot to Namajunas (if Namajunas gets past Maverick).
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Rose Namajunas (11/2/2024)
Next fight: vs Maycee Barber (5/31/2025)
Outlook: After suffering her first UFC defeat to Fiorot in March 2024, the 26-year-old Blanchfield bounced back well with the biggest win of her career over Namajunas in a five-round co-main event. The fight showcased Blanchfield’s grit and ability to make adjustments as she was able to impose herself late to get the nod on the scorecards. Her upcoming main event against fellow young contender Barber will be crucial in keeping her within striking distance of a title shot. If she gets her hand raised in impressive fashion, it could set her up for either a crack at gold or a No. 1 contender bout with Silva.
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Katlyn Cerminara (3/9/2024)
Next fight: vs Erin Blanchfield (5/31/2025)
Outlook: Because Barber made her UFC debut back in 2018, it’s easy to forget she will turn just 27 years old on May 18. The American brawler currently sits on a six-fight winning streak, but hasn’t been able to follow up on her win over Katlyn Cerminara in March 2024 due to some health issues. Back and healthy, however, she could throw her hat into the title picture in a major way with a win over Blanchfield.
Outlook: The buzz after Shevchenko’s successful title defense mainly consisted of a potential fight against strawweight champion Zhang Weili. China’s longtime champion has essentially cleaned out her division (although Virna Jandiroba might take exception to that) and has been pining for a fight against Shevchenko for a while. It’s certainly a matchup fans will want to see, and it seems like a matter more of “when” than “if.”
Among the flyweight contenders looking to build a 125-pound resume is former strawweight champion Rose Namajunas. “Thug Rose” gained some good traction in 2024 with main event wins over Amanda Ribas and Tracy Cortez, but she wasn’t able to string together that third win when she lost to Blanchfield on the scorecards. With a win over Maverick in Atlanta, Namajunas could set herself up for another crack at the division’s top 5.
Outside of Silva, no flyweight is on a better run of form than Jasmine Jasudavicius. The Canadian absolutely steamrolled former strawweight champion Jéssica Andrade in Montreal, submitting the Brazilian in what felt like the blink of an eye. With five wins in a row, Jasudavicius certainly deserves a shot at the division’s elite. Fights against Grasso, Namajunas (if she beats Maverick), Fiorot or the loser between Blanchfield and Barber all make a lot of sense for the 36-year-old.