It’s always fun to point out the exciting prospects in a division. In the welterweight class, that is Ecuador’s Michael Morales. Three years into his UFC career, Morales gets the opportunity to headline his first UFC main event, against a veteran at 170 pounds in Gilbert Burns. 


 
The two were originally scheduled to have a three-round bout in Miami last month, before it got moved to Montreal at UFC 315 last Saturday, but now it was elevated to five rounds and for good reason. It’s an exciting fight to see where Morales stands in the division, and should he get the job done against Burns, he’ll likely find himself inside the top 10.
Order UFC 316: Dvalishvili vs O'Malley 2
Before the two get into the Octagon inside UFC APEX in Las Vegas, let’s take a look back at how Morales got to this point. 
A Memorable UFC Debut











                        Michael Morales celebrates after his knockout victory over Trevin Giles in their welterweight fight during the UFC 270 event at Honda Center on January 22, 2022 in Anaheim, California. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Morales made his UFC debut at UFC 270 back in January 2022 against Trevin Giles. The Ecuadorian got things off on the right foot, earning a first-round TKO over Giles, keeping his undefeated record intact.
Get Ready For UFC Fight Night: Burns vs Morales With Our Breakdown Of Every Fight
It took a little bit for the welterweight to find his footing once things got underway after Giles landed some kicks and a right hand. Things made their way to the mat, where Morales was once again tested as Giles tried to lock up an arm triangle choke, but after the two were able to get back on the feet, it was all Morales. The welterweight hurt Giles with a right hand and continued to land a series of unanswered shots that forced the referee to step in and end the fight at 4:06 of the first round. 
Racking Up The Wins



 









Michael Morales | Career Highlights


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Michael Morales | Career Highlights
      





























 / 

Live

























































Six months later, Morales faced Adam Fugitt at UFC 277, where he picked up his second win inside the Octagon and another stoppage, this time in the third round. 
It would be almost a full year before Morales was back in the Octagon again. In his third UFC fight, the welterweight faced veteran Max Griffin, and it was a good test for Morales, who won the fight by unanimous decision, but showed that he can hang with veteran competition. After losing the first round, Morales made some adjustments in the second and third, allowing him to find his range more, putting the pressure on “Pain” and ultimately finding the path to victory on the scorecards. 
FOLLOW @UFCNEWS: On Facebook | On Instagram | On X | On Threads
Morales then entered the co-main event slot in the APEX as he faced Australia’s Jake Matthews, another veteran. The striking was once again on display as the Ecuadorian used his size and quickness to create his path to victory, winning over the judges for a unanimous decision to end his 2023 campaign. 
A Step Up In Competition












                        Michael Morales battles Neil Magny in a welterweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on August 24, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              







The biggest win of his career came last August against Neil Magny, who was ranked in the top 15 at the time of their fight.
It was a quick night in the office for the 25-year-old, who ended things in the first five minutes and did so in impressive fashion. Morales started things off with a spinning back elbow after the two were on the fence that sent Magny stumbling and ultimately down to the canvas. He remained in control, and as Magny flattened out, Morales started pouring on the shots to force the stoppage.
View Michael Morales' Athlete Profile 
Now, Morales sits at number 12 in the welterweight rankings as he looks to pick up another big win and put himself on the list of contenders to face new champion Jack Della Maddalena.







UFC Fight Night: Burns vs Morales took place live from UFC APEX in Las Vegas, Nevada on May 17, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          UFC Vegas 106