And just like that, it’s June.
The year is flying by and only going to continue to pick up pace as we move into a hectic month featuring four events, capped by International Fight Week and UFC 317 at T-Mobile Arena in Las Vegas. Thinking about the upcoming slate and the potential names that could appear in this space next month after stellar performances and big efforts already has me excited about what’s to come, but, admittedly, I tend to feel that way most months because at the end of the day, the men and women that make their way into the Octagon always tend to deliver, giving me plenty to consider when handing out this bushel of imaginary awards each month.
May was no different, as we got a robust slate of candidates to consider in three of the four categories, and a slam-dunk winner in the other. 
So without any further adieu, let’s get into it.
Breakout Performance: Jack Della Maddalena (UFC 315)
This wasn’t Andrade slipping — this was Jasudavicius continuing to elevate her game as she’s been doing throughout her UFC tenure and especially since her decision loss to Tracy Cortez at Noche UFC in 2023. She’s leaned into her grimy, aggressive nature, shown more intensity and punishing intent once she gets opponents to the canvas, and has used her long limbs to lace up submission wins in three of her last five outings to rise to No. 6 in the flyweight rankings.
She’s the highest ranked Canadian on the roster at the moment and the emotional heartbeat of the group of Canucks currently making a quality push in the UFC. Another marquee assignment against someone stationed ahead of her in the rankings is in order after her performance in Montreal, and if the plan is to come out west for a Fight Night event later in the year, it might be the right time for Jasudavicius to earn her first main event assignment. 
Honorable Mentions: Quang Le vs. Gaston Bolanos, Luana Santos vs. Thainara Lisboa, Yadier Del Valle vs. Connor Matthews, HyunSung Park vs. Carlos Hernandez, Jordan Leavitt vs. Kurt Holobaugh, Ramiz Brahimaj vs. Billy Ray Goff 
Knockout of the Month: Bekzat Almakhan stops Brad Katona (UFC 315)
This was the hardest choice to make this month, as you could certainly make a compelling case for going with Reinier de Ridder’s second-round stoppage win over Bo Nickal, Marc-Andre Barriault’s vicious elbow finish of Bruno Silva, or Mike Malott setting the crowd alight at Bell Centre when he knocked out Charles Radtke, not to mention Jared Gordon’s clubbing right hand against Thiago Moises; all viable options, all genuinely impressive efforts.
But I went with Almakhan’s first-round knockout of Katona in Montreal for a couple reasons. 
First, it was just so pretty and well read. If you go back and watch the fight, you’ll see that Almakhan got Katona’s timing and rhythm down almost immediately, and was instantly lighting him up on the feet. Less than a minute into the fight, Katona drops his level and Almakhan hits him with a clean right uppercut, drawing a “nice uppercut” from Daniel Cormier on the broadcast. The finish came less than 20 seconds later on the exact same entry, read, and reaction.
The second reason I tabbed this finish as the top knockout of the month is because Almakhan feels like one of those off-the-radar cats that people should really be paying close attention to in the ultra-competitive bantamweight ranks. This was just his second appearance in the UFC and they opened the show at Bell Centre, but remember, Almakhan buzzed Umar Nurmagomedov in his short-notice promotional debut, forcing the recent title challenger to be more grappling-heavy than he traditionally is, which tells you the kind of upside the “Turan Warrior” brings to the Octagon. 
This was an outstanding read and expertly executed finish, and I have a feeling it will be far from the last time we hear from Almakhan in this space.
Honorable Mentions: de Ridder vs. Bo Nickal, Marc-Andre Barriault vs. Bruno Silva, Mike Malott vs. Charles Radtke, Jared Gordon vs. Thiago Moises, Dustin Jacoby vs. Bruno Lopes
Fight of the Month: Aiemann Zahabi vs. Jose Aldo (UFC 315)