The UFC makes its sixth trip to Nashville, Tennessee, this week, bringing a fight card featuring a dozen matchups to Bridgestone Arena, headlined by a heavyweight clash between Derrick Lewis and intriguing sophomore Tallison Teixeira.
Nashville has played host to several memorable debuts, finishes, and fights over the years, with both Carlos Condit and Khabib Nurmagomedov stepping into the Octagon for the first time in Music City, with more recent highlights including Anthony Pettis knocking out Stephen Thompson, Diego Lopes blowing through Gavin Tucker, and Tatiana Suarez submitting Jessica Andrade.
The potential for chaos and excitement feels high as we ready for the first event in a seven-week stretch that will feature stops in New Orleans, Abu Dhabi, Las Vegas, Chicago, and Shanghai, so sit back, buckle up, and enjoy the fisticuffs as we get things rolling this weekend.
Tennessee’s own “Nate the Train” chugs his way into the Octagon for a home state showdown with Morgan Charriere in the main card’s first featherweight fixture.
Born, raised and fighting out of Clarksville, which is about an hour northwest of Nashville, Landwehr makes his first appearance at home since arriving in the UFC at the outset of 2020. The all-action wild man (said with love) has gone 5-4 over his nine appearances, and looks to rebound from a stoppage loss to DooHo Choi when he makes the walk in this one.
The 29-year-old Charriere has been hit-and-miss through his first four trips into the Octagon, alternating wins and losses; registering finishes in his victories, and going the distance in his setbacks. He was ultra-competitive with Chepe Mariscal, who remains unbeaten in the UFC, had moments opposite Nathaniel Wood last year, and should make for an outstanding dance partner for Landwehr in this one.
If you’re placing bets for Fight of the Night, this wouldn’t be a bad selection, as these two are likely to meet in the center right out of the chute and not stop throwing until the round or the fight ends.
Vitor Petrino vs Austen Lane
Light heavyweights open the main card as Junior Tafa and Tuco Tokkos meet in a matchup originally scheduled to take place at the start of May.
A move down the 205-pound ranks was always anticipated for the younger half of the UFC’s Tafa Brothers, and comes after “The Juggernaut” salvaged his 2024 campaign with a win over Sean Sharaf last October. It will be interesting to see how Tafa takes to the transition, as he was never overly big at heavyweight, and will now look to shine in his new surroundings.
Tokkos makes the walk for the third time, still searching for his first UFC victory. After running afoul of French prospect Oumar Sy in his short notice debut, the Kill Cliff FC representative gave Navajo Stirling a good test last December, landing on the wrong side of the cards nonetheless.
This feels like it should be an action-packed fight, with the results telling us a great deal about where each man fits in the light heavyweight division going forward.
Preliminary Card Pairings
Max Griffin vs Chris Curtis
Australia’s Jake Matthews looks to make it three-in-a-row while Chidi Njokuani searches for a fourth consecutive win in this intriguing welterweight pairing.
Hyper-experienced but still just 30 years old, Matthews enters this one off consecutive decision wins over Phil Rowe and Francisco Prado, having posted a 10-4 record since moving up to welterweight several years ago. Njokuani dropped to the 170-pound ranks last year, beating Rhys McKee and Jared Gooden by decision in his first two outings before stopping Elizeu Zaleski dos Santos with a Muay Thai barrage earlier this year in a bout where he unfortunately missed weight.
Lauren Murphy vs Eduarda Moura
Mitch Ramirez vs Mike Davis
Mitch Ramirez and Mike Davis meet in a lightweight battle of competitors looking to get things moving in the right direction in Nashville.
Ramirez got a short-notice call-up to face Thiago Moises last year, where he was cut down with leg kicks by the Brazilian veteran before having a previous bout from earlier this year cancelled at the last minute. Davis had his six-year, four-fight winning streak halted earlier his year in Riyadh by Fares Ziam, and aims to get right back in the win column in this one.
Fatima Kline vs Melissa Martinez
Saturday’s action gets underway in the strawweight division as once-beaten prospects Fatima Kline and Melissa Martinez each aim to earn a second straight win.
After debuting up a division against Jasmine Jasudavicius, Kline showed why she’s one of the most talked about prospects in the promotion in January, stopping Viktoriia Dudakova with a torrent of elbows on the first event of the year. Martinez rebounded from her first professional setback with a unanimous decision victory over Alice Ardelean in her sophomore trip into the Octagon last October.
Please enable Javascript to view this content