Miesha Tate is back at bantamweight and feeling better than ever as she prepares to make one more run towards championship glory in the UFC.
“I love this matchup with Yana,” she smiled.
“I grew up fighting strikers and being the wrestler and the grappler, and I feel like this is another classic matchup.
“Obviously the sport of MMA continues to evolve, and women's MMA is not like it was 10 years ago, 15 years ago, so I'm expecting evolution in her. But at the core of who she is – her style is definitely more of a striker, so I'm excited to take her into deep waters.
“I don't anticipate that there's much that Yana will bring that I haven't seen or haven't prepared for multiple times throughout my career, but it's a fight, so you've got to expect the unexpected, and that's what I've prepared for this whole camp.
“A victory will put me right back in the Top 10, so that's what I want,” she continued.
“I hate being number 11. I want to be inside the Top 10, so I'm not happy with that right now, and she's sitting right at that number 10 seed. But I think a good win over her could boost me up even past that.
“So again, I’m looking for my best performance. It’s not about Yana, it's not about the win, it's about being my best. And when I'm my best, not only will I get the win, but I think I'll do it impressively.”
Tate’s confidence comes from the knowledge that, after 29 fights and at 38 years of age, she’s still improving as a fighter, and she plans on parlaying that fighting talent into victory on Saturday night in Des Moines.
“I just think I'm way better today than when I first started fighting,” she said.
“I actually went back and watched all of my old fights, everything that I could find, and this will be my 30th professional fight. So it was a lot of watching myself evolve through the years.
“There's so many different styles and so many different things that I have explored, and tried, and done, and experienced inside this career of mine, and I was thinking, it must be hard to figure out exactly what I'm going to do, because I feel like I can dip into any one of those.
“But I’m just ready to be a savage, and I’m ready to go out there and fight hard.”
Tate may be making the walk to the cage for the 30th time, but her thirst for success remains as strong as ever. The former two-promotion champion says that she’s learned plenty over the course of her rollercoaster career, and said that experience, coupled with still being at her physical peak, means she still has what it takes to make another run at the women’s bantamweight crown.
“I definitely think there's a route for me back to a title shot,” she insisted.
“I think it's crazy to me that I've been doing this [sport] this long, and I finally feel like I've figured it out. I'm just so much better than I used to be.
“Part of it is mindset, and part of it is my coaches. I lost my coach, Robert Follis. He passed away, and that was really hard for me. I retired and had all these crazy things going on. I left a crazy, toxic relationship, and now things are really in stride for me. So it just makes all the difference.
“I just couldn't see all that before, and I feel like it's a lot more clear for me now, and I know what I'm here to do. I'm not here for a long time, so I'm here for a good time, so I'm going to make it the best.”
If Tate is able to gatecrash the championship picture again, there’s a chance it could set her on a collision course with another elite judoka.
Tate’s rivalry with Ronda Rousey defined the era of women’s MMA in Strikeforce, then the UFC. Rousey may now be retired, but Olympic judo champion Kayla Harrison is making a charge to the top of the division.
Tate heaped praise on Harrison’s achievements to date, and said that she’d relish the chance to test her MMA skills against Harrison in the future.
“I think the world of Kayla Harrison. I think she's such a great fighter, and I admire her as a human being. All of her accomplishments, she's just great,” she said.
“It's nice to have a fresh face in the division, absolutely. And I really would like to test myself against Kayla, because I don't think I'll ever get that third fight against Ronda, and I kind of see her as that person that I could show that I finally figured out the judo problem that was a problem for me so long ago when I just I couldn't find partners like that, and I just didn't have the right strategy around it.
“I feel so much more confident about what I could deliver now. So I think it would be great for me to have that and be able to test myself and see if I'm correct in that. So that would be a dream come true.”
Ultimately, though, Tate wants to make sure that every time she steps out of the Octagon, she does so knowing that she’s given her all. It’s a mindset that has served her well over the course of her career, and ensures that, whoever she’s facing, Tate will always give her all in her quest for victory.
“I’ve always had this ‘never quit, never give up’ mindset, and I always go in there with that,” she said.
“I’m gonna give whatever I have, and I'm not gonna quit, and I'm not gonna give up. So I think that it's really hard to take me out of fights. I’m not going to quit. You really have to beat me. And sometimes that's easier said than done.”