Saturday night, the UFC makes its 16th visit to London and 30th trek to the United Kingdom, making it the fourth nation — or collection of nations, in this case — to cross the 30-event barrier, along with the United States, Brazil, and Canada.
Despite the frequent trips across the Atlantic, it’s been nearly two years since the Octagon touched down at The O2 Arena, as last year’s British excursion brought UFC 304 to Manchester, and the promotion has done well to stack the deck with talent from across the U.K. and surrounding areas, bringing a typically stacked event back to the shores of the Thames.
Here’s a closer look at what’s on tap for Saturday night.
Main Event: Leon Edwards vs. Sean Brady
Location: The O2 Arena — London, England, UK
Where to Watch: ESPN+
Other Main Card Matches:

Jan Błachowicz vs. Carlos Ulberg
Gunnar Nelson vs. Kevin Holland
Molly McCann vs. Alexia Thainara
Jordan Vucenic vs. Chris Duncan
Nathaniel Wood vs. Morgan Charriere
Fletcher’s toughness in the TUF house earned him a chance to compete inside the Octagon, and the Next Generation MMA man made the most of it back in September, submitting fellow TUF 32 contestant Zygymantas Ramaska in the second round to collect his third straight win. Loughran, a former Cage Warriors bantamweight titleholder, has gone 1-2 to begin his UFC tenure, landing on the wrong side of the cards in competitive fights with Taylor Lapilus and Jake Hadley, while emerging victorious in a bout with Angel Pacheco in between.
Guram Kutateladze vs Kaue Fernandes
Saturday’s action gets underway in the lightweight division, as Guram Kutateladze and Kaue Fernandes lock horns inside the Octagon.
A tantalizing talent in the 155-pound ranks who debuted with a split decision win over Mateusz Gamrot, Kutateladze looks to build on his August win over Vucenic and take a big step forward in the division by picking up his third UFC victory here. The 29-year-old Nova Uniao product Fernandes has split his first two appearances inside the Octagon, dropping a decision to Marc Diakiese before rebounding with a first-round stoppage win over Mohammad Yahya last time out.