Magomed Ankalaev will hope the second time's the charm when he challenges for the UFC light heavyweight title at UFC 313.
Ankalaev will challenge reigning champion Alex Pereira in the main event in Las Vegas on March 8 as the Russian contender looks to convert his immense potential into a championship reign at 205 pounds.
Victory over Pereira would represent the completion of a journey that saw Ankalaev encounter some unexpected, and unusual, obstacles as he has followed his quest for championship glory inside the Octagon.
A Reality Check
When Ankalaev arrived in the UFC in 2018, Dagestani MMA was already established on the world stage, thanks to the success of Khabib Nurmagomedov. But, while Khabib brought relentless wrestling and a suffocating top game to the Octagon, Ankalaev arrived with something a little different – heavy-handed finishes.
When he made the walk for his UFC debut, Ankalaev was an 8-0 prospect and a former WFCA light heavyweight champion riding a three-fight knockout streak. 
Standing in his way was Scottish grappler Paul Craig, who was coming into the bout on the back of consecutive first-round knockout losses to Tyson Pedro and Khalil Rountree Jr.
To many, it looked like the bout was a foregone conclusion, with a confident Ankalaev expected to steamroll Craig and get his UFC career off to a winning start.
And, as the seconds counted down in the final round of their bout in London at UFC Fight Night: Werdum vs. Volkov, that assessment was looking pretty accurate. Until disaster struck for the Russian newcomer.
With Ankalaev in top position, raining down ground-and-pound on a seemingly trapped Craig as the 10-second clapper sounded, a shutout decision win looked a formality. But Craig threw up his legs and locked up a triangle choke in a last-gasp bid to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat.
All Ankalaev had to do was ride out the remaining few seconds, but incredibly, with one second to go, he tapped. It ended his dreams of a dominant victory in his UFC debut and evaporated his undefeated record. But, more importantly, it lit a fire under Ankalaev, who was determined to put things right on his next appearance.
Judging by what happened next, it's fair to say Ankalaev did.
Hitting His Stride
In his next five outings, Ankalaev stopped four of his opponents with strikes, with only Klidson Abreu surviving to see the scorecards. 
He demolished Marcin Prachnio in less than a round, closing the show by dropping the Polish fighter with a head kick, then finishing him with nasty ground-and-pound for a Performance of the Night finish.
And, following his decision win over Abreu, he went into the pocket and traded heavy shots with Dalcha Lungiambula. Eventually, after sapping the powerhouse's gas tank, he got the knockout he was chasing, courtesy of a nasty front kick and an academic follow-up shot.
Getting Back To Business
Given the nature of the result against Walker, a rematch was ordered for January 2024, and Ankalaev was determined to ensure that there would be no doubt in the second bout.
A huge, highlight-reel knockout from Ankalaev put the rocket boosters back on his title aspirations as he claimed an attention-grabbing win, a Performance of the Night bonus, and an Abu Dhabi showcase against fellow contender, Aleksandar Rakic.
While the fight with Walker offered an opportunity to add to his highlight reel, Ankalaev's bout with dangerous, rangy striker Rakic offered a very different sort of test for the Russian contender.
And, while he was noticeably more cagey in his approach, Ankalaev grew into the contest as he bounced back from losing the first round on all three scorecards to win Rounds 2 and 3 to claim a hugely-important unanimous decision victory and put him right back into the title picture once more.