There really isn’t anything better than home cooking.
The prelims wrap with a matchup between veteran lightweights Jared Gordon and Thiago Moises.
Gordon competes for the first time in just under a year after having his February debut scrapped after his replacement opponent was forced to withdraw at the 11th hour. Moises returns to Las Vegas looking to build on his win over Trey Ogden from earlier this year, in hopes of building some consistency after alternating results over his last several bouts. 
Yadier del Valle vs Connor Matthews
Recent DWCS grad Yadier del Valle makes his first appearance inside the Octagon this weekend, stepping in with fellow Contender Series graduate Connor Matthews.
The Cuban-born, Texas-based del Valle punched his ticket to the UFC with a unanimous decision win over Antonio Monteiro last season, pushing his record to 8-0 in the process. Matthews achieved that feat the previous year in his second attempt, but has since suffered back-to-back losses to Dennis Buzukja and Jose Delgado. 
Luana Santos vs Tainara Lisboa
It’s an all-Brazilian clash in the bantamweight division, as Luana Santos moves up to face off with the returning Tainara Lisboa.
After beginning her UFC tenure with three straight wins, Santos looks to get things moving in the right direction again following her UFC 305 loss to Casey O’Neill last summer in Perth. The 35-year-old Lisboa competes for the first time in nearly two years, having earned victories in each of her first two UFC starts and five straight wins overall.
Elise Reed vs Denise Gomes
Elise Reed and Denise Gomes step in against one another in a clash of strawweightslooking to build off recent successes.
Set to make her ninth appearance inside the Octagon, Reed earned a unanimous decision win over Jessica Penne last time out, maintaining her pattern of alternating results throughout her UFC tenure. Gomes rebounded from a unanimous decision loss to Angela Hill towards the end of 2023 with decision wins over Eduarda Moura and Karolina Kowalkiewicz last year to move to 4-1 over her last five fights.
HyunSung Park vs Carlos Hernandez
HyunSung Park and Carlos Hernandez face off here in a what should be a spirited flyweight fixture. 
Park, who won the flyweight tournament on the first season of Road to UFC, earned a Performance of the Night bonus in his promotional debut against Shannon Ross in December 2023 to move to 9-0 overall before missing all of last year with a knee injury. A member of the DWCS Class of ’21, Hernandez has gone 3-3 over his first six UFC starts, entering Saturday’s contest off a hard-fought win over NyamjargalTumendemberel in Macau last November.
Luana Pineiro vs Tecia Pennington