Do not suggest to Jailton Almeida that he is not “overly big for heavyweight” because the Top 10 heavyweight vehemently disagrees with the assessment, and has no time for arguments
It’s the fourth consecutive matchup against a Top 15 opponent for the Dana White’s Contender Series grad, who earned his contract with a dominant finish over Nasrudin Nasrudinov and opened his UFC career at light heavyweight before migrating north to the heavyweight ranks.
His third contest in the division came against Jairzinho Rozenstruik, a rankings mainstay who has faced a majority of the top names to compete in the weight class over the last several years. His fourth fight was against Derrick Lewis, the man with the most knockout wins in the history of the UFC that has fought for both the undisputed and interim heavyweight titles.
The effort reset the floor in terms of Almeida’s position in the divisional hierarchy, and he heads into his 2025 campaign aiming to redefine his ceiling, beginning with this weekend’s matchup against the underrated Spivac.
Set to turn 30 just a couple days after UFC 311, Spivac similarly enters off a first-round submission win, having made quick work of Polish veteran Marcin Tybura in his lone appearance of 2024. Despite a 7-2 mark over his last nine fights, the seventh-ranked “Polar Bear” is often dismissed as a contender as a result of previous losses to interim champ Tom Aspinall and former interim titleholder Ciryl Gane.
But Spivac blew through Lewis nine months before Almeida bested him in Sao Paulo, submitting the Houston native in the first round, and enters this weekend’s contest stationed one spot ahead of Almeida in the rankings. 
“He's a very tough athlete,” the Brazilian said when asked about his opponent. “I see a lot of comments on the internet belittling Spivac, but he's a complete and very strong fighter. I consider myself better than him in all areas of the fight, but he's definitely very good.
It’s a fairly reasonable three-step plan, one that only gets rolling with a win this weekend.
So how does Almeida see that happening?
“You’ll have to wait until January 18,” he began when asked to forecast how things play out with Spivac on Saturday, adding, “but you’ll like it.”