UFC makes an epic return to Saudi Arabia on February 1 for UFC Fight Night: Adesanya vs Imavov. With it comes a thrilling lineup of action-packed fighters known for their jaw-dropping finishes inside the Octagon.


 
The night will be capped off by the return of former two-time middleweight champion Israel Adesanya, who finds himself in his first non-title bout since February 10, 2019. He’ll take on surging French contender Nassourdine Imavov. Both fighters find themselves in a similar position where a Performance of the Night-worthy victory could put them just one step away from competing for the UFC middleweight title.
Order UFC 312: Du Plessis vs Strickland 2
But before it all goes down at anb Arena next Saturday, let’s take a look back at five of the best finishes from the UFC Fight Night: Adesanya vs Imavov cast.
Israel Adesanya Knocks Out Alex Pereira
UFC 287 – April 8, 2023
(Watch on UFC Fight Pass)











                        Israel Adesanya knocks out Alex Pereira in the UFC middleweight championship fight during the UFC 287 event at Kaseya Center on April 08, 2023 in Miami, Florida. (Photo by Cooper Neill/Zuffa LLC)
              




After suffering his first loss at middleweight to longtime kickboxing foe and UFC superstar Alex Pereira, Adesanya had the odds stacked against him going into their rematch at UFC 287 in Miami, Florida.
UFC SAUDI ARABIA: The Evolution of Israel Adesanya | Rise of Nassourdine Imavov
Having already lost three previous meetings to “Poatan” across both mixed martial arts and kickboxing, history was up against Adesanya. Like their previous meetings, this fight was a high-level, back-and-forth battle - until it wasn’t. With less than a minute to go in the second round, Adesanya landed back-to-back right hands that sent Pereira crashing to the canvas.
Though some fans point out that Pereira still holds a 3-1 advantage in their rivalry, this was a monumental moment for Adesanya, who overcame his greatest challenge in emphatic fashion. His bow-and-arrow celebration and emotional post-fight speech highlighted just how much this victory meant to him.
Shara Magomedov’s Double Spinning Backfist
UFC 308 – October 26, 2024
(Watch on UFC Fight Pass)











                        Shara Magomedov punches Armen Petrosyan in a middleweight fight during the UFC 308 event at Etihad Arena on October 26, 2024 in Abu Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Undefeated middleweight contender Shara Magomedov is a walking highlight reel, and that was never more evident than when he last stepped into the Octagon at UFC 308: Topuria vs Holloway.
FOLLOW @UFCNEWS: On Facebook | On Instagram | On X
With less than 10 seconds left in the second round, Magomedov found his range and landed not one, but two spinning backfists to send opponent Armen Petrosyan to the ground for the walk-off knockout. Magomedov said post-fight it’s a strike he’s always practiced but was hesitant to show off in the Octagon, worried it might get stolen by another athlete. Safe to say, he made the right call debuting it in Abu Dhabi.
Magomedov will try to pass his toughest test to date at UFC Fight Night: Adesanya vs Imavov when he takes on Michael “Venom” Page.
Vinicius Oliveira’s Picture-Perfect Flying Knee
UFC Fight Night: Rozenstruik vs Gaziev – March 2, 2024
(Watch on UFC Fight Pass)











                        Vinicius Oliveira lands a flying knee against Benardo Sopaj in a bantamweight bout during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on March 02, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




While nothing could top Max Holloway’s last-second knockout at UFC 300 for 2024’s Knockout of the Year, Vinicius Oliveira’s flying knee at UFC APEX was as close as you can get to it.
WATCH: One Hour Of The Greatest UFC Knockouts
Less than 30 seconds were on the clock when Oliveira landed a calf kick and left hook that backed Benardo Sopaj to the Octagon fence. Oliveira chased after him and launched into a flying knee that folded Sopaj and sent a strong message to the bantamweight division that a new prospect had arrived. Oliveira faces another stiff challenge next Saturday when he collides with Said Nurmagomedov.
Farès Ziam Knees Frevola To Sleep
UFC Paris – September 28, 2024
(Watch on UFC Fight Pass)











                        Fares Ziam knocks out Matt Frevola in a lightweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at The Accor Arena on September 28, 2024 in Paris, France. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Last year had so many impressive knockouts that Farès Ziam’s knee against Matt Frevola somehow went under the radar in Knockout of the Year voting.
WHERE WE STAND: Bantamweight Division | Lightweight Division
With two minutes to go and both fighters pressed against the cage, Ziam showed off his flexibility, launching a knee that landed flush on Frevola’s chin, knocking him out cold inside the Accor Arena. It was a masterclass performance from Ziam, proving he’s a real prospect in the lightweight division. Ziam returns to the Octagon at UFC Saudi Arabia to take on Mike Davis.



 





UFC Fight Night: Adesanya vs Imavov took place live from anb Arena in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia on February 1, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          UFC Saudi Arabia