Islam Makhachev made his dreams of winning multiple titles a reality as he turned in a dominant effort in New York City to secure the welterweight title. Perhaps the most stunning part of his decision win was the ease with which he dismantled Jack Della Maddalena, and at a time when the division is bursting at the seams with title contenders, Makhachev has no shortage of opportunities to carve out quite the legacy for himself.
This is where we stand in the welterweight division:
Last Fight:Unanimous Decision Win vs Jack Della Maddalena (11/15/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Makhachev looked bigger and stronger at 170 pounds, but he was also happier and healthier leading up to the bout. He openly spoke about the benefits of fighting as a welterweight compared with his days of cutting to 155 pounds, so, as crazy as it seems, the best of Makhachev may still be ahead. For his first defense at 170 pounds, there is a plethora of options. Michael Morales and Carlos Prates turned in stunning knockout wins to put their hat in the ring. Ian Machado Garry and Belal Muhammad will look to do the same in Qatar. At some point, Shavkat Rakhmonov will return and certainly make some noise. Makhachev named Kamaru Usman as a potential threat. If Makhachev wants it, he can be a hyperactive champion at 170 pounds.
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Loss vs Islam Makhachev (11/15/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Australia’s third champion was naturally disappointed with the result of his first title defense. After thwarting Muhammad’s grappling for much of his title-winning effort earlier this year, Della Maddalena succumbed to Makhachev’s wrestling attack time and time again. Now, Perth’s proudest son might have some work to do. On the bright side for him, he hasn’t faced anyone in the top-10 other than Makhachev and Muhammad. He could face Morales or Prates if they don’t get a title shot early in 2026 or rebook scrapped bookings with Leon Edwards or Sean Brady.
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Loss vs Jack Della Maddalena (5/10/2025)
Next fight: vs Ian Machado Garry (11/22/2025)
Outlook: “Remember the Name” has a straightforward task in order to remain in the title picture: defeat Machado Garry. The former champion is eager to get back into the winner’s circle and the title discussion, so he’ll need to serve up a memorable effort in Qatar. After putting together an 11-fight winning streak on his journey to gold, he may have to string a couple of wins together to distinguish himself as the next man in line for gold.
Last Fight: TKO Win vs Sean Brady (11/15/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Although UFC 322 was full of stunning performances, perhaps no result was more jaw-dropping than Morales’ first-round knockout win over Sean Brady. The young Ecuadorian has long been tabbed as a future contender, and he has not only passed all the requisite tests up the ladder but done so with flying colors. He prevented the Philadelphian from ever getting close to going in their bout, and now, the 26-year-old is on the cusp of his first championship opportunity. A fight against anyone in the top-5 would solidify his standing, whether that comes against Prates, Rakhmonov, or someone else.
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Ian Machado Garry (12/7/2024)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: Rakhmonov’s status as the clear-cut No. 1 contender has lost its shine since his win over Machado Garry at the end of 2024. The undefeated 31-year-old has been forced to the sidelines due to injury, and with all that has gone on at 170 pounds, he might need to bag another victory before making his shot for the title. Already holding a win over Machado Garry, Rakhmonov could face Morales, Prates, Della Maddalena, or Muhammad (should he defeat Machado Garry in Qatar) to put himself back in pole position.
Last Fight: KO Win vs Leon Edwards (11/15/2025)
Next fight: N/A
Outlook: The Brazilian has bounced back from his first loss in the UFC wonderfully, racking up back-to-back highlight-reel knockouts over Geoff Neal and Leon Edwards. On a night chock full of amazing finishes, Prates’ flatlining of Edwards (the first man to knock Edwards out) was perhaps the finest. Now, the fan-favorite Fighting Nerd is in position for a title shot. One could argue he still needs another win, and Machado Garry winning in Doha would exacerbate that claim. However, Prates brings the explosive power and personality to the table, which matters when vying for a title shot.
Outlook: Machado Garry can put himself right near the top of the title picture if he can tie a victory over Muhammad together with his decision win over Carlos Prates earlier in the year. Given Prates’ and Morales’ wins in New York City, however, he might need to get that victory in spectacular fashion in order to warrant that discussion.
Whether Usman needs to secure another win after he snapped his 3-fight skid against Joaquin Buckley is unknown, although one could argue he could face any of the recently victorious top-5 fighters in the division. Usman still brings the name value nobody else in the top-5 carries, so it’d be understandable if Makhachev wants to challenge the former champion.
Sean Brady and Joaquin Buckley are in similar boats after suffering defeats. They both need to get back on track in 2026 and probably rack up at least two wins before getting back into the discussion for the championship.pot in the top-10 next before continuing his pursuit of the title picture.