Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes. Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.
Easier said than done — it’s not easy to get a guy like Merab on the back foot. But at the beginning of the first fight, O’Malley was moving a lot, so keep the cage, stay long, and work the body. O’Malley hurt him at the end of the first fight, and I bet that will be part of the plan  in this one, so set up those kicks to the body, work the lead jab to the body.
When you work those lead hands to the body, Merab likes to come in with the overhand to a knee-pick or overhand to a double leg, so you’re cutting off that avenue because he has to lower his level. If you’re going to the body, he’s more likely to walk into it. He’s shown he’s susceptible to the body in the past, and I think that can be a way for O’Malley to build some confidence, especially early.
Kyte: So he threw 3.6 significant strikes per minute in their last fight; his average is 6.7. You look at his last two fights, and in the fight against “Chito” Vera, who you can go forward against, he landed 270 significant strikes and dominated the fight; he landed 47 against Merab.
Plain and simple: you’ve gotta go. Easier said than done, like you said, but he has to be more active. His best skill is his striking, and he has to use it.
Chartier: There are two options, right? He can get taken down trying to defend takedowns, or he can get taken down trying to land strikes; what’s going to give you the better chance of winning?
Chartier: You saw he got a little frustrated in the last fight, but when you have those 25 minutes of experience and the fact that he ended it on a positive note, you can parlay that into this fight.
I think there are two ways you can react to that last fight: one is “he’s just gonna lay on me, he doesn’t wanna fight; it’s so frustrating” or you can accept that he’s probably gonna take you down, but “if I have the right reactions, I know I can get up, and I know I can hurt him on the feet.”
You’ve got to keep making him work, not get panicked when you get taken down, just get up, and when you’re in those positions to land, you’ve gotta land, because last time he waited too long.
I’m very interested to see which of those reactions comes this time around.
X Factor
Kyte: Okay — what, if anything, is the X-factor in this fight?
Chartier: I think it’s O’Malley’s mindset coming into this one.
Chartier: He didn’t look worse against Merab than anyone else did!
Kyte: Right — he had more success than lots of people, especially in that last round. And we don’t know how bad that injury was.
We were told he wasn’t able to grapple during the entire camp, so how much does that factor into things? 
Chartier: Yeah, sometimes that’s where a good coach will insert those little explanations to steer their fighter towards being more confident next time out. They drop that little Easter egg — “I’m pretty happy how we did given that we couldn’t wrestle last camp. This camp we’re going to be better, we’re going to be able to do everything” — and then the fighter is fired up, buying into it.
Not saying that’s what is happening here, but if it were, that would be smart.
One Coaching Curiosity
Kyte: In terms of a curiosity point, what’s the thing you’re looking to see or the question you want answered?
Chartier: I’m not curious about anything in the fight, but I’m curious to see how O’Malley reacts after the fight.
I want to see what his mindset is, I want to see what his demeanor is like because this is a real big crossroads moment, and I think how he deals with all that will be somewhat instructive. He’s gonna have to answer some tough questions about it this week because if he loses to Merab for a second time in eight, nine months, he’s probably not fighting for the title again as long as he’s on the throne.
He gets stuck in that Rich Franklin with Anderson Silva, Joseph Benavidez with Demetrious Johnson spot where that third shot just isn’t coming, so I want to see if he’s all the usual stuff or dialed in and not playing any of the trash talk games because he’s bent on proving a point?
Chartier: I’m anxious to see how he reacts if it doesn’t go his way. If he wins, we know he’s gonna be right back in there, calling out the next guy — probably (Cory) Sandhagen — but if he loses, what does he do? How does he approach it?
It’s going to be interesting to see.
Kyte: It sure is!