After taking a step back over the last year, Cameron Saaiman is all smiles as he counts down the days, hours, minutes until he can stride out to the Octagon again on Saturday night in Kansas City.
“But those are little tests, and we passed them with flying colors,” he said with a smile. “Now I get to be here, I get to be in Kansas City, which is amazing — I love this city — and after finishing Malcolm Wellmaker, I’m gonna ask the UFC to never put me in the APEX again because my track record isn’t that great there, but it’s amazing in arenas.”
Saaiman’s first three bouts took place on pay-per-view events in arenas, and he won all three, while each of his last two appearances came at the promotion’s base of operations in Las Vegas, and the results did not fall in his favor.
Back in an arena on Saturday night, he’s looking to hold to the pattern, and is excited about the opportunity to share the Octagon with the promotional newcomer Wellmaker.
“He’s good; he’s really good, and I think it’s a compliment to myself and him that he gets to fight someone with experience, and I get to fight someone that really made a name for himself on the Contender Series,” he said of this weekend’s matchup with the unbeaten Contender Series graduate, who stopped Adam Bramhald last season to earn his place on the roster. “When you get to this level of fighting, I don’t think you have to look too far to find a good guy.
“If I throw a rock out of this window, I’m probably hitting some of the best fighters in the world down in the parking lot. When I got the name, I was just excited — it was a date that made sense, it was outside of the APEX, which was great, and I took it as a compliment.
“He’s a very good striker, they want a good matchup on the card, and I think we’ll be able to deliver that,” continued Saaiman, his speaking pace quickening just a little as he discussed getting to get back to work this weekend. “I was solely focused on getting the job done, and that’s what we’re gonna do.”
A year away, especially at his age and relatively early in his fighting career, brings with it the potential for massive growth, especially with someone as clearly talented as Saaiman.
Though there are definitely going to be changes to his game and all-around development, the affable South African promised that, at his core, he’s still going to be the same “Most Savage Player” once he steps back into the Octagon on Saturday.
“You’ll still see the fun ‘MSP,’” he pledged, still a little revved up. “I’m still gonna come out smiling, and I’m gonna have fun in there; that’s something I can guarantee you. I’m always looking to put up an exciting fight. Win or lose, in my 11 professional bouts, I don’t think I’ve ever had a boring fight, and I pride myself on that, so I want to continue that streak.
"I think it’s just gonna come down to getting back into that creative flow,” Saaiman suggested when asked how he gets himself back into the win column this weekend. “I think when I fight at my best, I fight very enthusiastically. I get to be creative and mix things up — mix my striking with my wrestling, with my grappling, wherever the fight goes.
“If I go out there with an open heart and do what I do best, we’re gonna get the finish, and I’m really looking forward to it.”
Having spoken with him several times in the past and listening to him on Tuesday, it’s clear that these first couple years on the UFC roster were a whirlwind for the engaging and promising prospect, and that pressing pause was clearly something that he needed to do in order to properly reset things.
Just a handful of days away from striding out to the Octagon again, his excitement is palpable, even through a Zoom call, but so too is the fact that being back on the cusp of competing means more to him than words can express.
When I asked him what a victory this weekend would mean, the excitement turned to vulnerability as Saaiman welled up, tears gathering in his eyes.
“It’s… it’s… this one is gonna feel really good,” he said as a wave of emotion rushed over him. “I’m actually getting emotional.
“It’s gonna feel really good,” he added, taking a big deep breath to ward off the tears and allow himself the ability to speak. “It’s been a… it’s been a good year, but it’s been a tough year, so it’s gonna be a fun one to get back.”