Often, when a fighter is preparing to step into the Octagon after back-to-back losses, there’s a palpable sense of pressure in the air. 


 
Losing three fights in a row is often viewed as the final straw before a fighter is invited to try new pastures. But for Peruvian lightweight Claudio Puelles, Saturday night’s fight at Noche UFC offers him the chance to showcase the latest evolution of his fighting talent.
MORE NOCHE UFC: Fight By Fight Preview | Fighters On The Rise | Representing Mexico
After defeat in the final of The Ultimate Fighter Latin America Season 3 back in 2016, Puelles reeled off five straight victories, with three of them coming via his signature finish, the kneebar.
But a TKO loss to Dan Hooker at Madison Square Garden halted his win streak, and a split-decision loss to France’s Fares Ziam in Mexico City in February 2024 saw him suffer back-to-back losses for the first time in his career.
Since then, Puelles has taken time to heal his injuries, work on his game, and spend some time in a different UFC role, as part of the Spanish language broadcast team.











                        Claudio Puelles of Peru kicks Dan Hooker of New Zealand in a lightweight bout during the UFC 281 event at Madison Square Garden on November 12, 2022 in New York City. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




But now, after 18 months away from competition, Puelles is fully fit and ready to return, and he’s excited to be the one in the Octagon competing, rather than sitting outside it, calling the action. 
“It’s very exciting,” he said.
“I worked with the UFC in Espanol for the past two (Noche UFC) cards, so I finally have my shot to actually fight in one of these. I’ve been waiting for that, for sure.”
Everything You Need To Know Aboiut Noche UFC And Canelo vs Crawford
That experience working on the broadcast side hasn’t just been a distraction from his injury layoff. It’s actually developed his knowledge base and sharpened his analytical skills, which have helped him as a fighter.











                        Claudio Puelles of Peru works for a submission against Clay Guida in a lightweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on April 23, 2022 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




“I’m around a lot more UFC events than I used to be,” he explained.
“Only when I was fighting and maybe coaching a teammate, but that was only a couple of times a year. Now I’m at UFC shows a couple of times a month, so I get to be around the whole scene, and also to study a lot of the fighters that maybe were going under the radar.”
FREE FIGHTS: Lopes vs Ortega | Silva vs Mitchell 
The time away also gave him the chance to fully heal up from a broken hand sustained in his loss to Ziam. He admitted that, while fighters usually want to bounce back as quickly as possible, he was careful to take his time and make sure he was fully recovered before launching himself back into training again.
“I did break my hand. That was February of last year. It was a good fight, but it ended up going to a split decision,” he recalled.











                        Claudio Puelles of Peru prepares to enter the Octagon prior to facing Fares Ziam of France in a lightweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at Arena CDMX on February 24, 2024 in Mexico City, Mexico. (Photo by Josh Hedges/Zuffa LLC)
              




“So, after that, I had surgery, I took some months to recover, like, almost half a year, and then I started training... When I started training, I said to myself, I'm not gonna rush…I'm gonna take a slow process. I'm gonna actually train. Because the last fight I took, that was not short notice, but it was like five weeks, so I didn't have a lot of time to train. I was also coming off a layoff, so this time I was like, I'm not gonna rush it. I'm just gonna go through the whole process, train a lot, get better, and that's what I did. 
“It kind of took a while to get a fight, not on my end, but it finally happened, and what better than to be fighting at Noche. I’ve been putting in a lot of work since about October last year. I started training again, and I've been training non-stop. I haven't stopped for a single day.”
CANELO VS CRAWFORD: Callum Walsh Talks Co-Main Event Matchup On Sept. 13
Puelles will take on former The Ultimate Fighter Brazil alum Joaquim Silva, an 11-fight veteran who is making his return from a 16-month layoff. Despite his lengthy UFC tenure, Puelles admitted that he wasn’t fully up to speed on his opponent until he dug deeper into the Brazilian’s fight record.
“At the beginning, I thought he was a grappler because of his name, like he's like ‘Netto BJJ’. I thought he was a grappler, but apparently, he's not!” he grinned.



 









Highlight: Claudio Puelles Locks Up Third-Round Kneebar Submission | UFC Fight Night: Font vs Aldo


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Highlight: Claudio Puelles Locks Up Third-Round Kneebar Submission | UFC Fight Night: Font vs Aldo
      





























 / 

Live

























































"But I do know he's a tough opponent. I do know he's tough, he's been around. So I think he's gonna bring a good fight come Saturday. I'm sure of that... I’m going in there to win the fight, trying to finish. From the first round, I’m going to be there in his face. He can expect a tough fight, for sure.”
In preparation for his return against Silva, Puelles has been looking to round out his skillset. Seven of his 12 career wins have come via submission, and he spent much of his camp sharpening his striking to bring that up to speed.
“I have a new boxing coach, Artem Kosminov. I've been training nonstop with him since February,” he explained. "I also have a new grappling coach, who also happens to be my cousin. He's also here with me in my corner. Both of them are.
“We've been analyzing the game, breaking down things, breaking down tape, training specifically for the opponent I have. So, yeah, it's been like a whole study case, and we've been doing a lot, trying to not leave anything to luck.”












                        Claudio Puelles of Peru reacts after his submission victory over Clay Guida in a lightweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on April 23, 2022 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




Puelles also spent time with Rafael Fiziev, who was suitably impressed with his improvements.
“He showed up three weeks ago, so towards the end of my camp I had some very nice sparring sessions with him... He's an amazing training partner, amazing guy. I love the energy with him. And yes, I got to test some of my striking, some of my training, with him, and it’s been going pretty good... He told me himself, ‘Wow, you've really gotten a lot better.’ I kind of knew it, but it's good to have that reassurance from someone in the top 10 in my weight class.”
With a new-look coaching team and the backing of one of the best strikers in the division, Puelles heads to Noche UFC confident that his improvements will shine through on fight night.
“The evolution is going to show on Saturday,” he said.











                        Claudio Puelles of Peru works for a submission against Clay Guida in a lightweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on April 23, 2022 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




“It's not only (working on) one punch or one combo. I just want people to see my whole new game, all the new facets.”
And, despite the record books showing Puelles going into Saturday night’s fight off the back of a loss, he doesn’t view it that way, with his split-decision defeat to Ziam actually boosting his confidence, rather than diminishing it.
“To me, I don’t feel like I'm coming in on a bad moment,” he said.
“For the last fight, I felt like I was coming from an actual loss. This time, since it was a split decision, the guy was pretty tough, I didn't feel like I lost. So, instead of losing confidence, let's say I actually won confidence, even with a split decision (defeat)... I was like, ‘Oh shit! I'm back!’ I was a little nervous before that one. So, coming in here, I think I just want to keep the momentum going. I’ve been doing it in the gym, sparring twice a week, since December. So I think, think I'm pretty ready. The people are just going to see it.”




Noche UFC: Lopes vs Silva took place live Frost Bank Center in San Antonio, Texas on September 13,2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          Noche UFC