A new king ascended the lightweight throne as Ilia Topuria knocked Charles Oliveira out in the first round, becoming the 10th fighter to capture UFC titles in two divisions. The sky is the limit for the undefeated Topuria, who continues to chase Islam Makhachev. While the former champion has his attention fixed on the welterweight title, a long-simmering grudge match could very well be next for “El Madator.” 
This is where we stand in the lightweight division: 


 
Champion: Ilia Topuria
Last Fight: KO Win vs Charles Oliveira (6/28/2025)
Next fight: N/A











                        Ilia Topuria of Spain strikes Charles Oliveira of Brazil in the UFC lightweight championship bout during the UFC 317 event at T-Mobile Arena on June 28, 2025 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Cooper Neill/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: Topuria is on a generational run. His consecutive knockout wins over Alexander Volkanovski, Max Holloway and Charles Oliveira could stand as the best three-fight run ever, especially when considering the form of his opponents heading into the bouts and how he scored finishes over each of them. At 28 years old, he is barely scratching the surface of his prime, a terrifying fact for any prospective contender. His sights seem to move toward settling his beef with Paddy Pimblett, and the two had an entertaining faceoff in the Octagon following UFC 317, but Arman Tsarukyan and Justin Gaethje have more-than-fair cases for the first shot at the newly minted champion. Topuria has also made it known he desperately wants to fight Makhachev when his business is settled against Jack Della Maddalena. Whomever he fights next, it’s clear Topuria is a superstar and must-watch TV whenever he makes the walk. 
1) Islam Makhachev
Last Fight: Submission Win vs Renato Moicano (1/18/2025)
Next fight: N/A











                        Islam Makhachev of Russia secures a submission against Renato Moicano of Brazil in the UFC lightweight championship fight during the UFC 311 event at Intuit Dome on January 18, 2025 in Inglewood, California. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: Another potential bout for Topuria remains Makhachev. The former lightweight champion is currently building himself up to challenge welterweight champion Jack Della Maddalena, but it’s unclear whether he intends to bounce between divisions or remain at 170 pounds. Topuria expressed interest in fighting Makhachev at welterweight, as well, so things could get a little complicated in the most fascinating way over the next 6-12 months. 



 
2) Arman Tsarukyan      
Last Fight: Split Decision Win vs Charles Oliveira (4/13/2024)
Next fight: N/A











                        Arman Tsarukyan of Georgia punches Olivier Aubin-Mercier of Canada in their lightweight bout during the UFC 240 event at Rogers Place on July 27, 2019 in Edmonton, Alberta, Canada. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: Tsarukyan did not make the walk after hitting championship weight as the backup fighter, the second time he tipped the scales at 155 pounds but did not fight this year. The 28-year-old is a fascinating stylistic matchup for Topuria. His size, grappling and skills on the feet seem like a good challenge for the current champion, but he does lack a little momentum to push him into the matchup having not fought since UFC 300. That split decision over Oliveira put him into the No. 1 spot, but it seems his injury-induced pullout at UFC 311 remains as a cloud over his title contention. If he does need to secure a win, fights against Pimblett, Gaethje or Max Holloway (should “Blessed” beat Poirier) could serve as a skeleton key.



 
3) Charles Oliveira
Last Fight: KO Loss vs Ilia Topuria (6/28/2025)
Next fight: N/A











                        Charles Oliveira of Brazil strikes Ilia Topuria of Spain in the UFC lightweight championship bout during the UFC 317 event at T-Mobile Arena on June 28, 2025 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: Instead of becoming the first two-time lightweight champion, “Do Bronxs” suffered the fate of fellow legends Volkanovski and Holloway. At 35 years old (turning 36 in October), Oliveira’s future is unclear. Including Makhachev, Oliveira lost to the top three 155ers at present while also holding wins over two of the next three fighters below him. However, fights against Holloway, Pimblett or Dan Hooker could allow the Brazilian to remain in and around the title picture in a meaningful way.



 
4) Justin Gaethje
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Rafael Fiziev (3/8/2025)
Next fight: N/A











                        Justin Gaethje punches Rafael Fiziev of Kazakstan in a lightweight fight during the UFC 313 event at T-Mobile Arena on March 08, 2025 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: Gaethje was Octagonside for Topuria’s victory and has made it clear he wants nothing other than another shot at undisputed gold. Whether “The Highlight” gets that chance or not is unclear. If he is convinced to take a No. 1 contender fight, a matchup with Tsarukyan makes all the sense in the world. At 36 years old, the Colorado-based slugger is aware he is in the closing stages of his career, so this forceful push for a title shot does make sense. 



 
5) Max Holloway
Last Fight: KO Loss vs Ilia Topuria (10/22/2024)
Next fight: vs Dustin Poirier (7/19/2025)











                        Max Holloway reacts to his knockout of Justin Gaethje in the BMF championship fight during the UFC 300 event at T-Mobile Arena on April 13, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Cooper Neill/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: “Blessed” is making his long-assumed permanent move to lightweight when he faces Poirier in New Orleans. A win over Poirier would give Holloway a win over three of the division’s top 5 (although the bout with Oliveira took place 10 years ago). The BMF champion is keen on competing for lightweight gold, although Topuria’s ascension to the throne complicates things greatly. In the meantime, Holloway could line himself up for a big fight against a top-flight lightweight like Oliveira, Tsarukyan or Hooker with a win over Poirier. 



 
In the Mix: Paddy Pimblett



 









Paddy Pimblett Octagon Interview | UFC 314


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Paddy Pimblett Octagon Interview | UFC 314
      





























 / 

Live






























































Outlook: Things couldn’t have worked out better for “The Baddy.” After dominating Michael Chandler in Miami, Pimblett is due for a shot at somebody in the division’s top 5, but his long-gestating grudge with Topuria could put him in pole position to challenge for the title before 2025 comes to a close. However, UFC CEO Dana White expressed his discontent with the in-Octagon moment following Topuria’s win, so it’s unclear if the bout with Pimblett will be made for Topuria’s next outing. 







Tags



          Lightweight