As if the featherweight division needed another young contender in the mix, Aaron Pico makes his highly anticipated Octagon debut at UFC 319. The 28-year-old comes into the promotion having won nine of his last 10 bouts, and earning stoppages in 11 of his 13 wins since turning professional as a 20-year-old in 2017. 


 
Pico, who was originally scheduled to face Movsar Evloev in Abu Dhabi before Evloev pulled out of the bout, is set to face the unbeaten Lerone Murphy. A win over “The Miracle” would catapult Pico into the division’s elite.
BREAKING: Paramount and TKO Announce Historic UFC Media Rights Agreement
Before he makes his first walk to the octagon, get to know more about Pico below:
Age: 28
Birthplace: Whittier, California



 









Aaron Pico Talks Signing With UFC


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Aaron Pico Talks Signing With UFC
      





























 / 

Live






























































Nickname: None
Height: 5’8”
MORE UFC 319: Fight by Fight Preview | Fighters on the Rise
Record: 13-4
UFC Record: 0-0
Style: Boxing / Wrestling




 


 
Gym: Jackson Wink
Order UFC 319: Du Plessis vs Chimaev
Other Notes:

Pro since 2017
Nine wins by KO, two by submission (RNC, Anaconda)
Seven first-round finishes
Has won nine of his last 10 and three in a row
U17 World Champion in wrestling
2016 U.S. Olympic team alternate






UFC 319: Du Plessis vs Chimaev took place live from United Center in Chicago, Illinois on August 16, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          UFC 319