“Everybody has their rollercoaster in this game,” begins Daniel Rodriguez, posted up in his hotel room in Des Moines, Iowa, just a handful of days ahead of his clash with Santiago Ponzinibbio at Wells Fargo Arena.
For starters, it was originally scheduled to take place in September 2023, but had to be scrapped when Rodriguez tested positive for a banned substance and was handed a six-month suspension. Though he didn’t mention the failed drug test by name, Rodriguez did frame this fight as one where he has “so much to make up for,” acknowledging the postponement was “a bad look” and his desire to “switch all that up” this weekend.
But, more importantly, this fight feels like the key to unlocking the future Rodriguez is working to build for himself outside of the Octagon, and the driven veteran is bent on going out there and securing a second straight win so he can truly begin investing in those projects in earnest.
“Let me tell you, this fight means so much to me because I have so much lined up behind it; I have so much s*** planned,” begins Rodriguez. “I’m starting to build an empire, so these next few fights, you’re gonna get the best ‘D-Rod' you’re gonna get because I have so much riding on these fights, so much riding on the win bonus — and then the extra 50k bonus.
“So many good things are happening and I’m so excited for the future that I’m gonna go out there on Saturday and fight for that future,” he adds, shifting back and forth in his seat as the anticipation courses through his body. “It’s not just going out there to get the win — it’s getting the win for my future, and that gives me so much more motivation, so much more energy.”
After admittedly struggling with Morono out of the chute, the chance to step in with a more conventional, traditional opponent like Ponzinibbio carries tremendous appeal, and Rodriguez is confident that when the smoke clears, the result will be the same as the last time.
“I feel like it’s gonna be similar to the Morono fight,” he says before quickly adding “but I’m not gonna start off as slow.
“I’m gonna try to have better footwork and pick him apart a little more, but I’m ready for him to come out in the first round with everything he’s got. By the time the third round comes — if it gets that far — I will be picking him apart and doing what I do, man.
“He’s not a high combination striker,” he adds, giving a cursory assessment of his Argentinian opponent. “It’s very simple: ones and twos, maybe a three, but I’m a volume f****** striker. I’ll be in his grill.”
From feeling like he was fighting for his UFC career to looking to secure his future beyond the Octagon, the last several fights have indeed been a rollercoaster for Rodriguez.
But he was ultra-confident heading into the last one and feels even better this time around.
“That was a good matchup for me,” he says of the fight with Morono. “When I got that matchup, I said, ‘That’s a good matchup for me; I’m gonna win this fight.’
“When I got this matchup, I said, ‘Good matchup for me; I’m gonna win this fight.’ The UFC did a great job on this one.”