*Update: Due to medical issues, non-weight cut related, Arman Tsarukyan was removed from his fight with Islam Makhachev. Replacing Tsarukyan in the main event will be Renato Moicano. As a result, Beneil Dariush was removed from the card.*
UFC lightweight contender Renato Moicano had a near flawless 2024, securing three dominant victories in as many fights, each one more impressive than the last.
The 35-year-old started last year with a one-sided decision against Drew Dober that saw the Brazilian amass over 10 minutes of control time and a strike differential of 142-36. He then came from behind to stop Jalin Turner via TKO in the second round at the historic UFC 300 event.
Order UFC 311: Makhachev vs Moicano
Somehow neither of those performances stack up against his last Octagon appearance, in which he went into enemy territory in Paris, France, and dispatched of Benoît Saint Denis at the end of two rounds after a grueling onslaught of ground-and-pound forced the Octagonside doctor to step in and call the fight after 10 minutes. The trio of wins earned Moicano the No. 7 spot in the 2024 UFC.com Awards.











                        Renato Moicano punches Benoit Saint Denis in a lightweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at The Accor Arena on September 28, 2024 in Paris, France. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Moicano’s found plenty of success throughout his UFC career at featherweight and lightweight, but has often come up just short of cracking into the Top 5 or being included in the title conversation.
He can take a big step toward his dream of becoming a UFC champion by defeating promotional veteran Beneil Dariush this Saturday at UFC 311. While Dariush is coming off back-to-back losses, getting past the No. 9-ranked lightweight contender will help solidify Moicano’s place at 155 pounds.
RELATED: Dariush vs Moicano Preview
“I stopped caring about winning and losing,” Moicano said of his recent success. “I’m just focused on my performance and what I have to do. I have been training hard for the last couple months, and I know what I need to do, I just have to go over there and not think too much. Sometimes I think too much. I think I perform at my best when I’m not thinking too much.”



 









Renato Moicano | Rear Naked Choke Artist


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Renato Moicano | Rear Naked Choke Artist
      





























 / 

Live

























































“I think the [lightweight] division right now is stuck. We have people in the Top 10 that don’t have matchups. People are talking about the matchups, but nothing is signed. People are choosing to fight each other so, eventually something could open up, but first I need to finish, knock Dariush out and then make my case for a title shot. Of course I want to fight for a title someday, but first things first, I have to knock him out.”
How To Watch UFC 311 In Your Country
At first, Moicano wasn’t a fan of this matchup. Having just beat the No. 12 ranked contender, Moicano was hoping to see someone a little higher up in the rankings. He also believes that Dariush is very well-rounded, but not nearly on the same level as him in any aspect of mixed martial arts. Two things are more important for Moicano in 2025, however: staying active and making money.




 

Please enable Javascript to view this content



 
“It didn’t make sense really,” Moicano said of his upcoming fight. “It was what UFC offered, and I want to stay active. I’m feeling good, I’m feeling healthy, and I want to fight as much as possible. And I don’t know, the first pay-per-view of the year, especially with the title shot on the line for the lightweight division, I think it’s good I’m on the same card, the main card, and I’m gonna talk some s*** and see what happens.
UFC 311 Full Fight Card Preview
“If I take him down, and I will, I will stay on the top and he’s not going to sweep me or anything or finish me. If he takes me down, I’m gonna get up and do what I need to do, which is beat him. I think he’s well rounded, but I cannot afford to lose and that’s the reality. I’m not losing. I want money. If I lose, it’s just half a check. I want the full check.”



 





UFC 311: Makhachev vs Moicano took place live from Intuit Dome in Inglewood, California on January 18, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          Intuit Dome
        



          Los Angeles
        



          pay per view
        



          Two Title Fights