Back in Montreal for the first time in more than a decade, UFC 315 gave the more than 19,000 people in attendance and millions more watching at home plenty to enjoy on Saturday night, and even more to ponder as we start to digest what transpired and where it could lead.
Coming out of UFC 297 last January, it felt to some like things in the UFC have turned for Canadian talents. After a magical night in Vancouver the previous summer at UFC 289 where fighters from the host nation went 5-0, with Romanian-born Stoney Creek, Ontario resident Diana Belbita kicking things off with a win, as well, Canucks went 2-7 in Toronto, with Jasudavicius and Gillian Robertson accounting for the only victories.
It was a better night in Edmonton towards the end of the year, as Canadian athletes went 6-2, but there was still a bit of a lingering hangover coming off a winless run last season on Dana White’s Contender Series and the rough night in “The Big Smoke” several months earlier.
As we come away from this past weekend’s event in Montreal, it feels safe to say that things are going pretty well overall for the Canadian contingent in the UFC at the moment.
Yes, Brad Katona and Kyle Prepolec lost on Saturday but, on the whole, athletes from the host nation went 4-2, with Jasudavicius and Marc-Andre Barriault collecting Performance of the Night bonuses, Mike Malott garnering a nasty second-round knockout win over Charles Radtke, and Aiemann Zahabi closing out the night for the Canadians with a unanimous decision victory over Jose Aldo, at home, to extend his winning streak to six. Mix in Gillian Robertson’s dominant showing against Marina Rodriguez and Serhiy Sidey collecting his second straight win a couple weeks back in Des Moines, Iowa, and it’s been a quality few weeks for Canadians inside the Octagon.
Daniel Santos is one of those competitors that is worth tuning in for every time he’s scheduled to compete. “Willycat” earned his third straight win on Saturday, fighting with his trademark devil may care approach, and whether he stays at featherweight or returns to the 135-pound ranks, he is sure to deliver another entertaining effort next time out.
Bekzat Almakhan kicked things off with a brilliant knockout win over Katona, sticking the Canadian with a sharp uppercut 60 seconds into their bout. He gave an excellent account of himself on short notice against Umar Nurmagomedov last year in his debut, and showed on Saturday that he’s another promising, young talent to keep close tabs on in the division.
One Last Thing
I think I’m uniquely equipped to say what follows, seeing as I’m Canadian and have been covering the sport for the last 15 years.
First and foremost, Montreal shouldn’t ever go more than three years without a pay-per-view, as it is the best fight town in my home country, and it’s not even close. The Bell Centre was buzzing on Saturday night, and while there is always an element of absence making the heart grow fonder in situations like this, the fact is that Montreal is the epicenter of MMA in Canada, the fans have always been great, and showing up routinely will produce this kind of response every time out.
Years ago, when I wrote for a Canadian newspaper chain (remember newspapers?), I suggested a four-year rotation of pay-per-views in this country, where Montreal, Toronto, and Vancouver were locked in as regular stops, and the fourth city alternated between Calgary and Edmonton. With one Fight Night event per year historically coming north of the border, you can add in spots like Winnipeg or Quebec City as well, and then you have a six-city circuit to rotate through, ensuring markets stay satisfied, but also don’t get oversaturated.
Secondly, this is the kind of pay-per-view lineup Canadian markets deserve every time.
Canadian events own the podium when it comes to North American attendance records for the UFC, and Saturday night showed that a strong card is going to bring a strong crowd out in Montreal even if Georges St-Pierre isn’t on the bill. There were six Canadians on the card following the late addition of Prepolec and that was the right amount, as we don’t need every Canadian on the roster competing every time the Octagon travels north.
Meaningful fights will always win out over stacking the deck with Canadian talent and eliminates the risk of having too many negative results that suck the life out of the crowd. Saturday was a great mixture and produced a solid flow to the night, and should be the blueprint for booking future pay-per-view events up here.
And with that, I’m out.
See you again after UFC 316.
Be good to one another.