The bantamweight title picture, once considered one of the most crowded and competitive in the UFC, is currently in the palm of Merab Dvalishvili’s hand. “The Machine” thwarted Sean O’Malley for the second time last Saturday and looked better than ever, this time finishing “Suga” in the third round after beating him on the scorecards in September 2024. 
 


 
Dvalishvili is ascending to all-time great status and conversations, but a couple contenders still would like to have their say before the Georgian is declared the G.O.A.T. at 135 pounds.
This is where we stand in the bantamweight division:
Champion: Merab Dvalishvili
Last Fight: Submission Win vs Sean O’Malley (6/8/2025)
Next fight: N/A



 









Merab Dvalishvili Post-Fight Interview | UFC 316


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Merab Dvalishvili Post-Fight Interview | UFC 316
      





























 / 

Live






























































Outlook: Dvalishvili seems invincible at the moment. No fighter is, but that’s just the kind of form Dvalishvili has shown in his two title defenses that have him in pole position for 2025’s Fighter of the Year. Dvalishvili secured his first submission win since 2017 when he tapped out O’Malley, and he seems keen to fight one or two more times this year. His next target is likely Cory Sandhagen, the only fighter to really call Dvalishvili out before he became champion. If Dvalishvili gets past Sandhagen, he could really get the conversations around the greatest bantamweights of all-time going.
1) Sean O’Malley
Last Fight: Submission Loss vs Merab Dvalishvili (6/8/2025)
Next fight: N/A












                        Sean O'Malley knees Merab Dvalishvili of Georgia in the UFC bantamweight championship fight during the UFC 306 at Riyadh Season Noche UFC event at Sphere on September 14, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: O’Malley seemed more focused ahead of UFC 316, but the results were the same against Dvalishvili. Humble in defeat, it’s hard to imagine the 30-year-old O’Malley straying far from title talks, but the former champion now has some work to do. On the bright side, O’Malley hasn’t fought anyone in the top 5 outside of Petr Yan, and his fight with Yan was a razor-close one. That all means O’Malley could find himself in several big fights, which could catapult him back into the championship picture. Fights against Umar Nurmagomedov, Song Yadong or a rematch with Yan all seem realistic. 
2) Umar Nurmagomedov
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Loss vs Merab Dvalishvili (1/17/2025?)
Next fight: N/A











                        Umar Nurmagomedov of Russia punches Merab Dvalishvili of Georgia in the UFC bantamweight championship fight during the UFC 311 event at Intuit Dome on January 18, 2025 in Inglewood, California. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: : Nurmagomedov arguably gave Davlishvili his toughest test to date, but he still faded in the championship rounds. That said, he did well enough for some to call for an immediate rematch between the two. That seems a little unlikely at the moment, but if Nurmagomedov sits and waits, he could very well get himself a second shot at Dvalishvili. Otherwise, fights against Yan or O’Malley make a lot of sense in terms of getting another title shot. 
3) Petr Yan
Last Fight: Unanimous Decision Win vs Deiveson Figueiredo (11/23/2024) 
Next fight: N/A











Outlook: “No Mercy” returned to form in 2024, scoring wins over Song Yadong and Deiveson Figueiredo to break his two-and-a-half-year winless drought. Despite his run of form since losing his belt to Aljamain Sterling in 2021, few doubt Yan’s quality. The Russian arguably has the deepest skillset of anyone in the bantamweight division and remains a real threat to regain the title. Unfortunately, because of his decision loss to Dvalishvili in 2023, he probably needs one more win to make his case for a rematch. Rumors are swirling around a potentially explosive matchup with Marcus McGhee, but fights against O’Malley, Nurmagomedov or someone like Mario Bautista make sense for Yan, as well. 
4) Cory Sandhagen
Last Fight: TKO Win vs Deiveson Figueiredo (5/3/2025)
Next fight: N/A











                        Cory Sandhagen trains at ONX Sports in Golden, Colorado, on July 11, 2024. (Photo by Zac Pacleb/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: Usually one of the quieter presences in the division, Sandhagen is making a conscious effort to rattle the cage about a title shot. His win over Deiveson Figueiredo put him next in line in some people’s eyes, including Dvalishvili’s. The two respectfully exchanged pleasantries in Newark, and it appears as though “Sandman” will get his first shot at undisputed gold sooner rather than later. 
5) Song Yadong
Last Fight: Technical Decision Win vs Henry Cejudo (2/22/2025)
Next fight: N/A











                        Song Yadong of China reacts after opponent Henry Cejudo could not continue due to an eye poke in a bantamweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at Climate Pledge Arena on February 22, 2025 in Seattle, Washington. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Outlook: The 27-year-old Song Yadong has long been tabbed as a future title contender, and it appears as though “The Kung Fu Kid” is getting closer to living up to that potential. It’s easy to forget just how young he is, considering he entered the promotion one month before his 20th birthday in 2017. That said, he has spent the better part of this half-decade in the division’s top 10 and has won three of his last four bouts. With several main events under his belt, he seems primed for a top 5 challenge of some variety.  
In the Mix: Mario Bautista, Marcus McGhee
Outlook: Outside of the title fights, UFC debutant Patchy Mix garnered as much attention as anyone at UFC 316. Mario Bautista didn’t get the memo, however, and handled business against the new face. Bautista has now won eight fights on the bounce and is deserving of a top 10 matchup.
His MMA Lab teammate Marcus McGhee is rumored to have that exact kind of fight coming up as some believe he is going to fight Petr Yan. McGhee has impressed four fights into his UFC career, picking up three finishes, three bonuses and four wins since joining the promotion in 2023. His latest effort, a decision win over Jonathan Martinez, proved he was top 15 worthy. At 35 years old, McGhee likely doesn’t have time to waste, so he could look to make major moves in the latter half of 2025.






Tags



          bantamweight