A night of steady action built to a grand crescendo at Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey, as the tandem bantamweight championship bouts brought the crowd to their feet and the victors to the brink of historic standing.
As we come away from another outstanding pay-per-view, let’s dive into the most interesting elements to discuss from UFC 316.
The Continued Rise of “The Machine”
At the end of her post-fight interview, Harrison acknowledged Amanda Nunes, the former two-division world champion and consensus greatest female fighter of all time, who was stationed in the front row, watching intently. “The Lioness” eventually made her way into the Octagon, congratulating the new champion and agreeing to the showdown everyone has wanted to seesince they were dominant figures in their respective promotions sharing the mats at American Top Team.
While the interaction was warm and complimentary, there is an undeniable rivalry there, and at some point later this year, we’re going to see how things shake out when they share the Octagon together. The dynamics of the matchup and myriad questions that encircle the contest are all fascinating to consider, and talk about this fight is going to continue to ramp up until the moment they stand opposite one another with the title hanging in the balance.
This is a superfight in every sense of the word, and it can’t get here fast enough. 
Big Night for Mario Bautista
Andreas Gustafsson established himself as a fun addition to the welterweight ranks with an unrelenting unanimous decision win over Khaos Williams. The self-proclaimed “least technical fighter on the roster” overwhelmed Williams from the outset, using his Greco-Roman wrestling acumen and all-around ruggedness to garner a lopsided win in his promotional debut.
JooSang Yoo produced one of the best debut wins of the year on the early prelims, hitting Jeka Saragih with a short left hook that instantly shut off his lights and sent him crashing down the canvas, face first. “Zombie Jr.” is undefeated, and if he keeps bringing this kind of smoke to the proceedings, he will be a fan favorite in no time. 
One Last Thing