If things had turned out a little differently, Lerone Murphy could easily have been fighting in front of 18,000 fans at The O2 Arena in his homeland. Instead, he’s set to compete in the intimate surrounds of the UFC APEX.
The stage may be smaller and more understated, but the career stakes for “The Miracle” are as high as they’ve ever been.
That’s because the undefeated English featherweight contender has been handed a five-round main event clash with hard-hitting contender Josh Emmett in a Las Vegas headliner with major title implications at 145 pounds.
For the 33-year-old Mancunian, it’s exactly where he needs to be.
“I want to be in there with the best. I want to test myself, and obviously I want to be champion. I know Ilia Topuria beat him and went on to fight for the title, so I want to do the same.”
Murphy got the opponent he wanted, and got an added bonus when he was told it would be a five-round main event.
For Murphy, it’s the chance to show the world that he’s championship caliber, and more than capable of performing over the 25-minute duration.
“I believe I'm a five-round fighter,” he said.
“I'm probably better over five rounds. But, to me, it doesn't really matter if it's a three-round (or a) five-round fight. A fight’s a fight.”
With all the pieces in place, all that remains for Murphy is to step into the Octagon and perform, and his eyes lit up when we asked him about the stylistic clash between himself and Emmett.
“It's a great matchup, isn’t it?!” he enthused.
“He comes to fight. He's a banger and he can wrestle, too. I believe I can do the same. So it's two lions in there. You've never seen Josh Emmett quit. You've never seen me quit. And I believe that creates a great fight.
“I would say he holds the power advantage, and I believe I hold the skill advantage, and I'm probably a bit faster too.
“So we’ll see where it goes.”
It’s also a fight that sees Murphy step into the main event spotlight for the second time in his UFC career. His first Octagon headliner saw him claim a unanimous decision victory over dangerous veteran Edson Barboza.
Now, after a subsequent win over Dan Ige at UFC 308, Murphy is back at the UFC APEX for another main event, this time as a Top 10 contender in the division.
“This game is just about being consistent and getting them reps in,” he said.
“Obviously, Ige and Barboza are two very big names, and then Josh Emmett is probably even bigger than that at the minute. So, for me, yeah, it's just (my job to) keep racking up these wins, and the goal remains the same, regardless.
“I know some of the circumstances that I overcame (against Ige) and I still went on to win. So I know I can compete with the best in the world – I've always known that – I just needed a consistent run.
“I’m looking forward to this fight. I think Josh Emmett will bring the best out in me. Obviously, everybody knows how good he is, and I need to perform on the night.”