When Kevin Holland steps into the Octagon, fans know they are in for an exciting fight. Since making his debut in 2018, the Dana White’s Contender Series alum has bounced back and forth from welterweight to middleweight, having a plethora of memorable finishes along the way.
A handful of Holland’s finishes have come within the first round, and very early in the first round. This fight against Jacare Souza was no different. It only took Holland 105 seconds to get the job done inside the UFC APEX. After a series of exchanges up against the cage, Holland ended up on the canvas. Despite Souza throwing punches down from the top, Holland managed to land a handful of his own, throwing a right hook that badly hurt Souza. As he got back to his feet, Holland continued to rain down punches, forcing the referee to step in. This was Holland’s third Performance of the Night bonus in 2020. 
Vs Alex Oliveira at UFC 272 – March 5, 2022 
After a series of fights at 185 pounds, Holland made his way down to the welterweight division for the first time in his UFC career and his debut was successful against Alex Oliveira.
It was a back-and-forth battle in the first round, with both men finding success in different areas, and Oliveira getting a takedown and rear naked choke attempt at the end of the first round. It was a submission attempt that would go viral for Holland giving the thumbs up despite the grip Oliveira had. 
Shortly after the second round got underway, Holland dropped Oliveira and followed it up with a handful of blows that called for a stoppage. Another bonus in the bag for the Texan. 
Vs Tim Means At UFC Fight Night: Kattar vs Emmett – June 18, 2022
Holland did not disappoint for his fans in Austin, Texas, as he submitted veteran Tim Means in the second round.
Similar to his fight against Oliveira, the first round was evenly matched, with Means and Holland going at it and throwing in some words along the way. A minute and some change into the second round, Holland used that knockout power to wobble Means and send him to the mat, where he ultimately locked up the D’Arce choke. 
Vs Michael Chiesa At UFC 291 – July 29, 2023
As he returns to Salt Lake City this weekend, Holland will look to replicate the performance he had last year inside Delta Center against Michael Chiesa. 
His first-round submission over Chiesa was probably the biggest win of his career and it was a dominant overall performance from the 31-year-old. Coming on the heels of his win over Santiago Ponzinibbio three months prior, Holland found success in the striking department, hurting Chiesa with shots up against the fence. Showcasing his submission abilities once again, Holland was able to lock up, yet another D’Arce choke, and leave with another $50,000 bonus.
Vs Michal Oleksiejczuk At UFC 302 – June 2, 2024 
After falling to Michael “Venom” Page earlier this year, Holland made the return to middleweight for the first time in eight fights and got back in the win column. It took Holland less than two minutes to secure the armbar submission that popped Oleksiejczuk’s elbow, calling Herb Dean to stop the fight.