It’s never too late to make a fresh start and, at the age of 36, Chidi Njokuani is enjoying the benefits of his new chapter.


 
One year ago, after suffering three losses on the spin in 2023, Njokuani ended a six-year run at middleweight when he made the move back down to welterweight. 
Order UFC 314: Volkanovski vs Lopes
It was a decision that has already borne fruit, with “Bang Bang” notching back-to-back victories over Rhys McKee and Jared Gooden in 2024 to establish himself at 170 pounds.
Looking back at that period of his career, going through that run of defeats, then making a change and turning his form around, Njokuani said that it was a valuable, and welcome, experience.











                        Chidi Njokuani lands a back elbow against Rhys McKee of Northern Ireland in a welterweight bout during the UFC Fight Night event at Boardwalk Hall Arena on March 30, 2024 in Atlantic City, New Jersey. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




“Yeah, I grew a lot,” he told UFC.com.
“I made a lot of changes. I decided to just stay focused on what I needed to do. And it's been showing in my last two fights.”
FOLLOW @UFCNEWS: On Facebook | On Instagram | On X | On Threads
The decision to move back down to welterweight wasn’t one he took lightly, but with those two wins in his pocket, his decision was validated, and has given him the confidence to move forward in the division.
“It felt like a new beginning, a reset, start over. It was the last fight on the contract. I’m like, ‘I got to make a change if I want to stick around.’











                        Chidi Njokuani punches Jared Gooden in a welterweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on October 12, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




With his back against the wall, and competing in a new weight class, the pressure was on for Njokuani, and he admitted that he didn’t help himself by putting more pressure on himself heading into those must-win fights.
“More pressure than I probably should have!” he smiled.
Saturday's Full Fight Card Preview
“More pressure than necessary, but it was a big deal for me. I really wanted to make a change. I really wanted to prove that I belong here.”
Despite the pressure, and the worry that defeat could spell the end of his time in the UFC, Njokuani stepped forward and went into the trenches with both McKee and Gooden to earn a pair of decision victories that helped right the ship and give him a base to build from in 2025.











                        Chidi Njokuani kicks Rhys McKee of Northern Ireland in a welterweight bout during the UFC Fight Night event at Boardwalk Hall Arena on March 30, 2024 in Atlantic City, New Jersey. (Photo by Jeff Bottari/Zuffa LLC)
              




“It feels great, bro, it's like, I know it wasn't crazy (to move down),” he said.
“I knew if I just did it this way, it'll work out. 
UFC KANSAS CITY: View The Card | Buy Tickets | VIP Experiences
“It meant a lot to me. It meant a lot to my confidence, knowing that I can do three rounds at 170 after cutting all the weight.
“I can knock people out all day, but knowing that I can push (opponents) around like that, it built up something mentally that I didn't have before.”











                        Chidi Njokuani knocks out Dusko Todorovic of Montenegro with an elbow in a middleweight bout during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on May 21, 2022 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Now Njokuani is riding a two-fight win streak as he looks to build on that momentum in his first bout of 2025. He takes on Brazil’s Elizeu Zaleski dos Santos in the co-main event at the UFC APEX, and it’s an opportunity to start stacking wins and moving up the UFC’s welterweight ladder.
The pressure is still there, but having emerged from a nightmarish 2023 to bounce back in 2024, pressure is less of a concern for him now. It’s simply a known quantity he has to contend with every time he sets foot inside the Octagon.
“It's more like I understand it now,” he explained.
“Before it was a foreign thing to me. Now I get it so I'm more comfortable with it.”



 









Chidi Njokuani Gets 16 Second KO in His UFC Debut | UFC Fight Night: Hermansson vs Strickland


















Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! 
Continue watching
Cancel







Unlock MORE of your inner combat sports fan with UFC Fight Pass! Fighting is what we live for. And no one brings you MORE live fights, new shows, and events across multiple combat sports from around the world. With a never-ending supply of fighting in every discipline, there’s always something new to watch. Leave it to the world’s authority in MMA to bring you the Ultimate 24/7 platform for MORE combat sports, UFC Fight Pass! Upgrade licence


This video is not available in your country 

There was a problem while loading content. Please try again. 
Cancel






        Chidi Njokuani Gets 16 Second KO in His UFC Debut | UFC Fight Night: Hermansson vs Strickland
      





























 / 

Live

























































Against dos Santos, Njokuani is facing a fighter with almost as much experience as himself. Between them, they’ve made the walk to the cage 69 times, and they’ve both made their names through their striking exploits. Njokuani has 14 knockouts to his name, dos Santos has 15.
It’s a style matchup that has Njokuani excited for Saturday night.
“He's good, he's aggressive, he's experienced,” he said.
“I think we have real similar fight records. Yeah, he’s a tough opponent, and it’ll be a good win for me.”












                        Chidi Njokuani reacts after his TKO victory over Mario Sousa in a middleweight fight during Dana White's Contender Series season five week two at UFC APEX on September 07, 2021 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




And after years of competing against bigger, stronger, harder-hitting fighters at middleweight, Njokuani is ready to spend more time being the hammer, rather than the nail, at welterweight. He’s already feeling the benefits of being the bigger man in his welterweight bouts.
“I think the biggest difference was the strength difference,” he explained.
“At 185 I felt like those guys were big! At 170 I can hang with these guys. I don't feel like I'm being bullied around.
“So I think that's really what it was – not so much the speed or anything, it's more the strength difference.”











                        Chidi Njokuani kicks Jared Gooden in a welterweight fight during the UFC Fight Night event at UFC APEX on October 12, 2024 in Las Vegas, Nevada. (Photo by Chris Unger/Zuffa LLC)
              




Njokuani will be looking to put those physical advantages to good use on Saturday night against fellow veteran dos Santos, and longtime fans of the sport will already know that their respective fighting styles should make for an entertaining co-main event clash.
“You know they can always expect some type of exciting punches and kicks and all that,” he said.
“I’m just looking forward to putting on a real good show.”




UFC Fight Night: Vettori vs Dolidze 2 took place live from UFC APEX in Las Vegas, Nevada on March 15, 2025. See the final Prelim & Main Card Results, Official Scorecards and Who Won Bonuses - and relive the action on UFC FIGHT PASS!



Tags



          UFC Vegas 104