After taking place in Las Vegas and featuring a flyweight championship bout between Alexa Grasso and Valentina Shevchenko each of the first two years, Noche UFC departs Nevada and does so without the flyweight rivals, touching down at Frost Bank Center for an action-packed card on Saturday night headlined by a pair of elite featherweight contenders.
Let’s get into it!
Main Event: Diego Lopes vs. Jean Silva
Location: Frost Bank Center — San Antonio, TX
Where to Watch: ESPN+
Other Main Card Matches:

Rob Font vs. David Martinez
Rafa Garcia vs. Jared Gordon
Kelvin Gastelum vs. Dustin Stotlzfus
Alexander Hernandez vs. Diego Ferreira
Santiago Luna vs. Quang Le

Prelim Matches:

Jose Daniel Medina vs. Dusko Todorovic
Claudio Puelles vs. Joaquim Silva
Tatiana Suarez vs. Amanda Lemos
Jesus Aguilar vs. Luis Gurule
Zachary Reese vs. Sedriques Dumas
Alessandro Costa vs. Alden Coria
Montse Rendon vs. Alice Pereira
Rodrigo Sezinando vs. Daniil Donchenko

Main Event: Diego Lopes vs Jean Silva
Brazilians Diego Lopes and Jean Silva go head-to-head in what promises to be an exciting conclusion to Saturday night’s third Noche UFC event.
Suarez carried a ton of hype and an unblemished record into her UFC 312 showdown with Zhang Weili, but wasn’t able to topple the dominant champion, dropping a decision and falling from the ranks of the unbeaten in the process. The 38-year-old Lemos lost to the Chinese standout two summers ago and has gone 2-1 since, besting Mackenzie Dern and Iasmin Lucindo on either side of submission loss to Virna Jandiroba.
Jesus Aguilar vs Luis Gurule
Jesus Aguilar and Luis Gurule share the Octagon in this flyweight battle of Dana White’s Contender Series grads.
Aguilar has sandwiched three wins between two losses in his five UFC starts, most recently landing on the wrong side of the cards in a bout with fellow DWCS graduate Rafael Estevam. Gurule earned his spot on the roster last year with a split decision win on short notice over Nick Piccininni but was stopped in the second round of his promotional debut in April against Ode’ Osbourne.
Zachary Reese vs Sedriques Dumas
Middleweight DWCS graduates Zachary Reese and Sedriques Dumas clash in what has the makings of a combustible pairing on Saturday’s prelims.
Reese arrived in the UFC with a 6-0 record and a 100-percent finishing rate, and has since gone 3-2, with decision wins in two of his last three showing that he’s still growing as a fighter. Dumas pushed his record to 7-0 with his contract-winning turn on the Contender Series, but has split six fights since landing in the UFC, entering this weekend’s contest off a first-round stoppage loss to Michal Oleksiejczuk in April at UFC 314.
Alessandro Costa vs Alden Coria
Brazilian flyweight Alessandro Costa returns to action for the first time since UFC 301, squaring off with debuting replacement Alden Coria.
“Nono” has gone 2-2 through his first four UFC appearances, stopping Jimmy Flick and Kevin Borjas while losing to Amir Albazi and Steve Erceg. Coria got the call to replace Edgar Chairez and looks to replicate the success of his teammate, Joshua Van, as he carries a four-fight unbeaten streak into his first foray into the Octagon on Saturday.
Montserrat Rendon vs Alice Pereira
Mexico’s Montserrat Rendon competes for the first time in nearly 18 months, while Alice Pereira carries an unbeaten record into her promotional debut.
Rendon garnered a split decision win over Tamires Vidal in her promotional debut, but dropped a decision to Darya Zheleznyakova in March 2024 and has been out of action ever since. When Pereira steps into the Octagon, she’ll supplant Raul Rosas Jr. as the youngest fighter on the roster, as the 6-0 debutant is just 19 years old.
Rodrigo Sezinando vs Daniil Donchenko
Originally scheduled for UFC 319, Rodrigo Sezinando and Daniil Donchenko go head-to-head in a Team Cormier clash to determine who will win the Ultimate Fighter 33 welterweight tournament this weekend in San Antonio.
Sezinando enters on a four-fight winning streak and having used his superior grappling to grind his way to the finals, while the 24-year-old Donchenko has also won four straight ahead of Saturday’s finale, showcasing his varied and dangerous striking attack while earning his two victories in the competition. This profiles as a classic “grappler versus striker” encounter and it’s going to be interesting to see who leveled up more and used their time since leaving the house best in this one.