
Business got underway in the flyweight division, with Ramazan Temirov edging out ranked veteran Charles Johnson before JJ Aldrich did the same to fellow tenured flyweight Andrea Lee. Featherweights took over from there, with Danny Silva earning his second UFC win in as many starts by out-working Lucas Almeida, followed by Chepe Mariscal pushing his record to 5-0 inside the Octagon with a clean sweep of the scorecards against Ricardo Ramos.

In the heavyweight feature, Mario Pinto closed out the prelims with a walk-off win over Austen Lane, making a splash in his promotional debut to advance to 10-0 overall and establish himself as one to watch going forward.

The undefeated 26-year-old has talked about needing to gain experience and show patience as he begins his UFC journey, and this fight was proof of those two things. Pinto has tremendous upside, but is just 10 fights into his professional career, so expect a slow and steady approach to things for the skilled newcomer.

The Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS) graduate was the more effective of the two whenever he went forward and threw, showing good boxing from both stances and a solid ability to roll with whatever was coming back the other way. Almeida was game throughout and the more effective of the two in the final round, ramping up his output as Silva began to slow down.

Two of the three officials scored the contest for Silva, who moved to 10-1 with the victory. This was a solid performance from the Bloodline Combat Sports representative, who will look to build further momentum and make a quicker return to action next time out as he aims to carve out a place for himself in the 145-pound weight class.

Aldrich was her fundamentally sound self from the jump, constantly pumping out the jab and following it with clean lefts that regularly found the target and even sat Lee down at one point. The more dynamic Lee had some positive moments of her own, primarily with her kicking attacks, but couldn’t put together enough prolonged offense to keep Aldrich moving backwards and shift things in her favor.

Temirov came out of the gate sharp and efficient, landing with the more appreciable impact while doing well to deal with a lot of what was coming back his way. As his gas tank started to run dry, Johnson was able to have much more success, but the Team Alpha representative did well to keep moving and not allow “Inner G” to hem him in along the fence.

The judges were called to determine the victor, and when the scorecards were added up, it was Temirov that came away on top, earning a unanimous decision victory. That’s consecutive UFC victories for the 28-year-old from Uzbekistan, and 11 consecutive wins overall. With Johnson having entered on a four-fight winning streak and stationed at No. 12 in the rankings, it’s likely that Temirov will take his place in the Top 15 following this one.