Sean Brady is Philly to the core.

From the sports teams and style to the swagger and unmistakable, the ascending welterweight contender reps his city in every way. So, when a picture popped up on his Instagram ahead of VeChain UFC 322 on Saturday night where he was being interviewed by someone sporting a loud New York Knicks jacket, the question had to be asked: what’s it like being a diehard Philly guy competing in NYC this weekend?

“We’re just so much better than New York that it doesn’t even matter, so you can wear whatever you want,” he said, playfully shaking his head a few days prior to his clash with Michael Morales at Madison Square Garden. “We’re superior, but in this case, I’ll take all the New York support I can.

More than anything, Brady embodies the city where he was bred in his approach to fighting, where the blue-collar work ethic ingrained in him by his parents fuels him in the gym and propels him into the Octagon each time.

The mindset extends beyond the way he conducts himself in the gym and inside the Octagon, carrying over to how he’s navigating his ongoing chase for the title.

Where so many competitors these days want to stand on their accolades and stump for opportunities on social media, Brady has made it clear that if beating Morales this weekend doesn’t secure him a championship opportunity against the winner of Saturday’s main event between Jack Della Maddalena and Islam Makhachev, he wants to face whichever opponent the UFC believes he needs to beat in order to finally earn that shot.

And if beating that guy doesn’t get him, bring on the next… and the next… and you get the picture.

“We’re fighters, and this is what we’re supposed to be doing,” he said with a slightly annoyed tone. “Guys wanna wait around, but one, you don’t get paid by waiting around, and two, nothing good ever came from waiting around.

“Winning solves everything,” Brady added. “I go out there, I beat this kid — if I get it next, great, and if not, I’ll fight again. I’m a fighter, I like to compete and that’s what I’m gonna keep doing until I get the title shot.”

These next couple weeks should help chart a course for the division in the first half of 2026. In addition to the main event title fight and Brady’s matchup with Morales, VeChain UFC 322 also features a crucial pairing between former champ Leon Edwards and Fighting Nerds representative Carlos Prates. Additionally, at next weekend’s debut event in Doha, Qatar, Belal Muhammad fights for the first time since being dethroned in May and faces Ian Machado Garry in the co-main event.

Between those four fights, it’s the champion and six members of the Top 10, plus Makhachev, one of the pound-for-pound best in the sport, who is either going to make his entry to the division as the new champion or somewhere in the upper echelon once the smoke clears after Saturday’s festivities at MSG.

True to his nature, Brady doesn’t have any one particular opponent in mind if he’s not standing opposite the champion next time out.

“(Kamaru) Usman’s saying he wants a title shot, and I’ve been asking to fight Usman, so I’d fight Usman,” he said of ex-champ, who halted a three-fight slide in June when he outworked Joaquin Buckley over five rounds in Atlanta. “I’d fight Ian. I’d fight Belal. I’d fight any of these guys.

In addition to having to see how everything else settles around him, Brady has to handle a little business of his own this weekend as well.

Unbeaten in 18 professional bouts, Morales is a 26-year-old Dana White’s Contender Series grad that has needed just four years and six fights to work his way into the Top 10. While he always presented as an intriguing prospect, his last two efforts — first-round stoppage wins over Neil Magny and Gilbert Burns — expedited his climb up the rankings, leading to his sharing the Octagon with Brady on Saturday night.

“The greatest challenge he presents is his power and his strength,” Brady said of his opponent, who has earned 14 of his 18 victories by stoppage, including four of his six UFC triumphs. “(He’s a) big, long, strong kid.”

Brady has been in Morales’ shoes. He was once the undefeated rising star on a fast-track to championship contention, only to have his rise paused for a moment by Muhammad. The loss taught him that life is always going to continue as it was regardless of the outcome of his fights, which has since allowed him to compete with more freedom. In turn, that makes him more dangerous, which his last three opponents learned.

Having lived what Morales is about to undertake this weekend, the Marquez MMA representative believes the shift from what Morales envisions will happen and the reality he’ll encounter in the Octagon will provide Brady with the opportunity he needs to take charge of the contest.

“I think he’s gonna come out and he think it’s gonna be…” began Brady, pausing to find the right way to present his thoughts. “He thinks he’s gonna get me out of there early, and then he’s gonna realize I’m not going anywhere. That’s when some doubt is gonna start setting into his mind, and then we’ll go from there.”

That may well be the way Morales envisions the fight playing out, but unsurprisingly, when asked for his forecasted version of how things will transpire this weekend, Brady remained a straightforward and no-nonsense as ever.