The first two years of Adrian Yanez’ UFC career went about as well as you could possibly hope for as a new face on the biggest stage in the sport. Highly regarded coming off Dana White’s Contender Series, he debuted 2-and-a-half months after earning his contract and collected a highlight reel finish and Performance of the Night bonus. From there, he was off to the races.

Four more victories followed, three by stoppage and one by decision, all of them earning a Performance Bonus end of the night, which had the Houston, Texas, native stationed at the forefront of the next wave of talent rising the bantamweight division.

Just when it seemed like Yanez was on the fast track to contention, everything started to go sideways as he suffered three losses in his last four fights, and the ascending talent struggled to get things straightened out.

As much as the losses sting, everyone knows they come with the territory, so navigating those frustrations is something most fighters grow accustomed to over the course of their careers. It never gets easier, mind you, but everyone learns how to move forward from a setback at some point, especially when another fight can come right around the corner.

“No shade towards my past coaches or anybody in those rooms, but we were able to click, and we clicked very quickly, very well.”

In the past, Yanez has been someone that was constantly pushing, but he did so out of anxiety.

He questioned whether he was doing enough, told himself that he needed to get another round in, another session in, more reps in, and struggled to find a calm port in the storm. As Fight Week approached, he’d be buzzing with anxious anticipation, still stuck in his head, questioning his readiness as he prepared to make the walk into battle.

“Right now, I would be a little more (antic), but I’m chill. I’m good. I know I’m ready,” he said. “I had a breakthrough where I was (going through a workout) and thought, ‘This session was a little different,’ and I looked at all the data, and I was like, ‘I’m in shape! I’m good! That felt easy,’ but looking at the data, it was a hard day. Everything feels like it’s falling into place.

“This fight camp hasn’t felt like any other fight camp that I’ve had. I feel like I’ve worked a lot less, but made the work count, and I feel great about it. Back in the day it would just be grind, grind, grind, grind, grind. Now I’m having to tell my training partners back in Houston, ‘In your head, you feel like you’ve gotta go, but go home, chill out; you’re okay. Calm it down.’ I’m really starting to feel that, and I have to set the example for the guys too.”

“There is something about putting on fresh, new UFC gloves, something different about taking that first step into the Octagon,” he said. “There is nothing like it… What it feels like every time I walk into the cage is that, everything that was on my shoulders, it falls off right there, and then you’re there, chillin’, ready to throw hands, and that’s my favorite part.

“As soon as you get in that cage, everything is silent, and it feels amazing.”

And if the night ends with him standing triumphant in the center of the Octagon, this nearly year-long ordeal finally in the rearview mirror?

“I feel like in that moment, I will just be grateful,” he said, adopting a more reserved and appreciative tone. “I’m really excited. I can’t wait. It’s gonna be a feel-good moment for me.”