Championship fights are layered battles, with the competitors stepping into the Octagon operating at the highest level in their respective weight classes.

Breaking down how these pivotal contests could possibly play out is a challenging venture, which is why UFC staff writer E. Spencer Kyte has taken to enlisting the help of some of the sharpest minds in the sport to help dissect these critical contests.

Best Trait of Each Fighter

Two-time Olympic judo gold medalist, bringing some world-class grappling skills to the Octagon, and her transition to MMA has been pretty much nothing but dominant performances, being able to leverage her judo background to get people to the ground and control them on the ground. So her strength and technique make her a force, especially in clinch situations, and with ground control.

Barraco: I think it’s critical for a fighter to have that.

You can teach people technique. If I’m given enough time with someone, I can make them technically sound, but what exists in the mind and what exists in the heart — you’re not teaching that, completely. You can improve on something that is already there, but you’re not going to give it to somebody that doesn’t have it at all.

If that person has quit in them, it’s there, period. I would much rather take somebody with no quit, tenacity, and toughness, and then teach them the technique over somebody that quits.

Kyte: You can learn your way out of it to a certain extent, and we’ve seen that with some people,who used to look for exits when things got tough, and now…

Barraco: Now it’s “you’ve got to finish me.”

How big is it to have someone that has that one world-class skill — that single talent that differentiates you from everyone else — when it comes to getting ready to step in there?

Barraco: It provides an entire new level of confidence.

Kyte: What’s the path to victory for each of them?

Kyte: Survive and get into the championship rounds.

I think far too often people will fight a ground opponent and get so hesitant when it comes to letting their offense go that they just get backed up, which makes it that much easier for the other people to walk them down or run them down. So she’s got to stay active offensively.

Barraco: Early takedown and ground control.

“I’m gonna back you up all the way to that barrier, and I’m not gonna let you go. I’m gonna clinch up with you, I’m gonna get you down, and I’m gonna use my legs to work inside and outside sweeps and trips to get you down.”

Kyte: Yeah, this very much feels like one where if it’s done early, it’s going one way, and if we go deeper into things, it gets interesting and could be going another way.

Kyte: What are your X-factors for these two?

Barraco: Yeah, it’s a wrap.

Kyte: I think everyone tends to agree that if she wins, it’s likely to be early — dominance, bigger, more physical; just a mauling.

But she’s one of the few people that would really benefit the most from going out there and being in a dirty, 25-minute fight where she had to battle hard. Like 2-2 going into Round 5 and she comes out and is the one that is able to dig deep would be amazing because then all the questions go away, all the talk is silenced; she’s answered all the questions.

I would love to see her healthy, in Round 4; I just want to see it. I just want to see what’s there.

Barraco: Me too.

Kyte: In terms of a curiosity point, what’s the thing you’re looking to see or the question you want answered?

Barraco: For me, there is the clash of styles, and then knowing one’s mental fortitude for certain — I feel — and not knowing the other one, and I want to see how those things all line up.

Barraco: “I don’t want a fair fight!”

Kyte: That’s it!

Barraco: “I’m not saying cheat, but I’m not looking for a fair fight.”

Kyte: Right! If you’ve got an advantage…

Barraco: Right — you’re not engaging as you should be, and all of sudden, you’re in a grappling situation because you were waiting on something.

Kyte: If that’s not your traditional approach — and I wouldn’t say that’s her usual approach — how difficult is that to pick up and implement in the course of a training camp?

Barraco: It is difficult to do things differently, especially as the fight is happening.

Can it be done? Definitely, if there is a huge emphasis from her team and her coaching staff on doing the right drills, putting herself in those positions, drilling it over and over and over again in camp will certainly increase the likelihood of her doing it in the fight. I don’t know what type of fighter she is in terms of her ability to implement new things from camp into the fight, but if she can — even a shred of it — it will certainly help her out.

Adding some footwork stuff in and getting off-line after combos? You can do that. Pad-holders can implement that. They could be doing drills over and over; Nicksick and I are big on drills to implement that kind of stuff in terms of footwork and movement and angles because it doesn’t necessarily always happen in sparring.

But if you take all that into sparring, you’re usually more likely to take some of that and implement it into the fight.

Kyte: It’s gonna be an interesting one.

Barraco: Oh yeah!