
Kyte: 100 percent, and that’s a big factor, but I agree with you on the “would rather have grit than all the technique” part from a coaching standpoint, and Pena might be the best example right now because she’s just got that belief, that confidence to her.

Barraco: She’s got that dog in her, and the self-belief doesn’t allow her to think anything other, which is great.

Barraco: I think having Pena dragging Harrison into some deep waters is going to be her best path to victory.

Barraco: For Pena, I think it’s being able to utilize and showcase some of that defensive grappling and scrambling IQ.

She’s scrappy, but can she do that against an elite grappler like Harrison? So her ability to defend takedowns, scramble back to her feet, defend positions — that’s the true X-factor because without a doubt, Kayla is getting her hands on her, and it’s going to come down to Pena’s ability to mitigate the clinch and the takedown.

So I want to see the clash between Pena’s mental resilience and Harrison’s technical prowess; that clash of styles. And then seeing how Pena’s camp prepared her to deal with Harrison’s grappling while still having her be offensive, exploit the fatigue, and present problems?

She’s going to have to make Harrison respect her, and I’m interested to see how they game plan to get that done, what she comes out utilizing.

For Harrison, I want to see if she can maintain her performance for all five rounds, if necessary. We keep talking about it, but that’s the big thing. I know what she’s capable of — though it would also be nice to see her develop her striking some more, present more challenges for opponents when they game plan for her.

That being said, if you have something that somebody can’t stop, you shouldn’t change it; make the other person figure out how to stop it. People complained about Khabib throughout his career, but no one could stop him, so why would he stop wrestling?

Kyte: (Eric) Nicksick always throws out that one Robert Follis line…

Barraco: If I’m a two-time Olympic judo gold medalist, I am absolutely using that to my advantage. If I fought Claressa Shields, I’m not gonna go in there and box with her for five rounds.

Kyte: It’s still a valid point though, because her grappling becomes better the more you have to be aware of the striking, and it doesn’t have to be super-technical or elite.

It’s like Merab has figured out working with John Wood, to where you have to be a little worried about the overhand right, he’ll kick you a little, and it creates that little half-second pause.