
Then there’s Fatima Kline and Erin Blanchfield. They’ve known each other since they were in their late teens, and while they had the same dreams everyone does, they’re actually in the UFC and making those dreams come true. That’s got to make for some interesting conversations.

“I feel like she's always been one step ahead of me, which, in a way, I've enjoyed because I’m able to see such a young person like Erin grow her career, and we're only a year apart from each other,” said the soon to be 25-year-old Kline of her 26-year-old teammate. “It’s been so motivating to me to know as a young person, wow, we can really get this done. And coming from the same gyms where we've been training since we were 18, 19 years old and where we didn't even know that much to now we're both in the UFC and she's ranked top five in the world, it's just like, well, what more can we do?”

The fourth-ranked flyweight in the world, Blanchfield is coming off a win over former world champion Rose Namajunas and was scheduled to face Maycee Barber in May before a Barber illness scrapped the bout on fight day. Kline was with Blanchfield in Las Vegas for the bout, and while “Cold-Blooded” didn’t get to fight that night, Kline expects that she will put the gloves on to meet Melissa Martinez this Saturday in Nashville.

Kline is well on her way, but she’s not the type to tell the world about it. Like Blanchfield, that’s not how they’re built on the east coast. But put her in the Octagon, and you can see the switch being flipped. It’s why she took a short notice fight up a weight class and at altitude against surging Canadian contender Jasmine Jasudavicius. Kline didn’t get the win, but she made an impression, and sent a message.

Kline left Denver with her confidence level as high as ever, and she took that mindset into her second UFC bout in January against Viktoriia Dudakova. That one ended in the second round, with Kline getting her hand raised via TKO.

“It’s really hard to put it into words, but if I were to say anything, it felt like a weight was off my chest,” said Kline of her first UFC win. “Honestly, coming off a debut loss and going back into my own weight class, I felt like there was so much pressure on me. And not from other people, but I feel it was the pressure I put on myself to go out there and to make a statement. I was previously undefeated, and since I was 10 years old, I wanted to be in the UFC, and to lose my debut, I took it really hard, but I feel like I learned so much about myself, and not only was it relieving to be able to win, but I was like, wow, I know that I can overcome adversity, not only through losses, but through tough fights, as well. And so I feel like I've built so much more confidence in myself now that I recovered from a loss, and I had such a dominant win in January that I'm just really excited to put myself back on another win streak.”