
Main Event: Manel Kape vs. Asu Almabayev

Prelim Matches:

Manel Kape and Asu Almabayev face off in a clash of Top 10 flyweights looking to stake their claim to a championship opportunity in Saturday’s highly intriguing main event.

Kape returns to action for the first time since his electric third-round stoppage win over Bruno Silva and the memorable post-fight interview that followed. That night in Tampa, “StarBoy” reminded everyone why he was viewed as a legitimate title threat from the minute he first touched down in the UFC, and instantly put himself right back into the thick of the title conversation.

Almabayev has quietly posted four straight wins to begin his UFC tenure, running his overall winning streak to 17 in the process. After working his way through Dana White’s Contender Series alums Ode’ Osbourne, CJ Vergara, and Jose Johnson, the 31-year-old from Kazakhstan outworked Matheus Nicolau last time out, claiming the third round on all three scorecards to garner the biggest win of his career.

While both men have always been targeting this March 1 date as the kickoff to their 2025 campaigns, Kape was initially penciled in opposite Brandon Royval, while Almabayev was first tabbed to face Steve Erceg, and then Allan Nascimento. The re-shuffling delivers a fascinating fight where lingering questions about Kape’s consistency and Almabayev’s ability to hang with the best in the division should be answered.

Middleweight stalwarts from strong teams occupy the co-main event position this weekend as Factory X representative Cody Brundage squares off with the MMA Lab’s Julian Marquez.

The 30-year-old Brundage has had a rather unique UFC career thus far, going 4-5 with one no contest and being involved in a pair of bouts that were halted early when he was struck by illegal blows to the back of the head. He’s an “all or nothing” fighter, as all but three of his 17 career appearances have ended inside the distance, and after going without a victory last year, you can be sure Brundage is itching to get his hand raised again this weekend.

Marquez steps in for recent TUF winner Ryan Loder here, looking to snap a three-fight slide. A member of the inaugural graduating class on Dana White’s Contender Series (DWCS), injuries have limited the 34-year-old to just seven appearances inside the Octagon, which have produced a 3-4 record with all but one of those bouts ending inside the distance.

Nasrat Haqparast and Esteban Ribovics share the Octagon this weekend in a battle of lightweights looking to continue their push towards the Top 15.

Still only 29 years old, Haqparast makes his first start of 2025 on a four-fight winning streak, having edged out Jared Gordon in an ultra-competitive contest in Saudi Arabia last summer in his lone outing of 2024. Technically sound, but also happy to bite down on his gum shield and sling leather from time-to-time, the Moroccan-based lightweight is 6-2 over his last eight outings, and heads into action this weekend looking for his 10th UFC victory.

Ribovics was one of the low-key breakout stars of last year, following up his rapid knockout win over Terrance McKinney in May by teaming with Daniel Zellhuber to deliver one of the most entertaining fights of the year at UFC 306, where he edged out his Mexican counterpart on the scorecards. He’s now won three straight since dropping his promotional debut, and profiles as a dangerous and aggressive dark horse in the lightweight division.

Making serious headway in the 155-pound ranks is certainly challenging, but each of these men arrive in Las Vegas with a ton of momentum. A fifth straight win for Haqparast or a fourth consecutive victory for Ribovics may not be enough to carry them into the rankings, but it could earn them a date with someone sporting a number next to their name whenever they return later in the year.

Heavyweight graduates from Dana White’s Contender Series share the Octagon here, as Austen Lane welcomes Mario Pinto to the UFC for the first time.

Just as he needed a couple appearances on the annual talent search series to punch his ticket to the big show, it took Lane a couple tries before he was able to register his first UFC win. Last time out, the former NFL defensive lineman played to his strengths, neutralizing the striking of Robelis Despaigne to grind out a unanimous decision victory over the Cuban knockout artist.

The second promising new heavyweight from last year’s DWCS graduating class to make his debut, Pinto returns to the UFC APEX looking to build on his rapid first-round knockout win over Lucas Camacho in his first official foray into the Octagon. The London-based Portuguese prospect turns 27 next month, is 9-0 as a professional, and, like Tallison Teixeira a couple weeks ago, looks the part of a potential threat in the heavyweight division at the outset of his UFC tenure.

Hyder Amil and William Gomis meet in a matchup between surging featherweights with very different styles on Saturday.

Gomis is the antithesis of his opponent this weekend — a measured, technical counter-fighter who values efficiency above all else. The MMA Factory representative has earned victories in each of his first four UFC appearances and a dozen consecutive appearances overall, with that last setback coming more than seven years ago against fellow UFC featherweight Morgan Charriere.

It’s going to be interesting to see how this one plays out as while they are stylistic opposites, their approaches marry well together, as Amil is happy to go forward, Gomis is content to lay back and counter, and it should lead to a number of entertaining exchanges as these two look to deliver a statement win that moves them further up the divisional ladder.

The preliminary card slate wraps in the featherweight division with what should be a barnburner between Ricardo Ramos and Chepe Marsical.

Ramos, who has been training with the Fighting Nerds this camp, enters off a split decision win over Josh Culibao at UFC 305 and brandishing an 8-5 mark inside the Octagon. The 32-year-old Mariscal has gone 4-0 to begin his UFC tenure, most recently collecting a unanimous decision win over Damon Jackson in August.

Brazilian veteran Douglas Silva de Andrade and Minnesota-based John Castaneda meet here in a potentially explosive bantamweight fixture.

A fixture on the roster since 2014, Silva de Andrade carries a 7-6 record inside the Octagon and 29-6 mark overall into his first appearance of the year, seeking to get things moving in the right direction again following a loss to Miles Johns last time out. Castaneda has gone 4-3 in his first seven UFC starts, earning quality wins over Johns and Muin Gafurov, while landing on the wrong side of the scorecards in competitive bouts with Nathaniel Wood and Daniel Marcos.

DWCS graduates Danny Barlow and Sam Patterson face off in a battle of ascending welterweights looking to continue their march forward in the 170-pound weight class.

Barlow, who punched his ticket to the UFC roster with a first-round stoppage win over Raheam Forest in Season 7, earned a pair of victories in his rookie campaign, collecting a third-round stoppage win of Josh Quinlan and a split decision nod over Nikolay Veretennikov last time out. A member of the Class of ’22, Patterson dropped his debut, but has looked like a new man since moving up to welterweight, earning a pair of first-round submission wins last year to establish himself as a person of interest in his new surroundings.

Danny Silva and Lucas Almeida clash in a meeting of all-action featherweights with the potential to set the bar for Fight of the Night honors on Saturday.

Flyweights not only close out the show, but open this weekend’s fight card, as well, as streaking veteran Charles Johnson squares off with promising sophomore Ramazan Temirov.

Johnson posted four wins in 2024, turning aside hopefuls Azat Maksum, Jake Hadley, and Joshua Van before wrapping up a 4-0 campaign with a unanimous decision win over Sumudaerji. Temirov extended his overall winning streak to double digits with a first-round knockout win over CJ Vergara in his promotional debut last October, instantly establishing himself as another name to track in the flyweight division in the process.