
Ikram Aliskerov opened the action with a first-round stoppage win over Andre Muniz that should restart his momentum in the middleweight division before Randy Brown collected a walk-off knockout win over Nicolas Dalby. While the next two bouts went the distance, both Abus Magomedov and David Onama likely forced their way into the rankings with quality wins over Michel Pereira and Giga Chikadze respectively.

In the co-main event, Zhang Mingyang continued the electric start to his UFC career, sending Anthony Smith into retirement on the business end of a one-sided drubbing that ended inside the first five minutes. And in the finale, Ian Machado Garry halted the rise of Carlos Prates, dominating early and hanging on down the stretch to hand the Fighting Nerds representative his first UFC setback while getting himself back into the win column.

Over the first three rounds, Machado Garry was the more active of the two, dictating the terms of engagement while mixing up his attacks and timing his level changes expertly. He kept Prates off balance and unable to really initiate any offence throughout the first 15 minutes, but from there, Prates started to take control, seemingly winning the fourth while busting up his Irish foe and trying to chase down a finish in the fifth, coming up empty handed.

They went the full 25 minutes, but the verdict was never in question. All three judges saw the fight for “The Future,” who put himself right back into the win column and cemented his standing as a contender in the welterweight division with this victory. This was a strong showing by both men — Machado Garry early, Prates late — and a reminder of just how competitive the welterweight division is at the moment.

Chikadze won the first despite getting touched early in the frame after clocking Onama late in the round, forcing the Factory X man to wrestle. Onama wrestled more in the second to draw level before the two began the third trading once again. Onama used a collision to work to top position with two minutes left in the third, and rode out the round in top position, keeping Chikadze pinned to the canvas.

The judges were called upon to determine the victor, and when the tens and nines were added up, it was Onama that came out ahead. That’s now four straight for the talented fighter from Uganda, who may have just punched his ticket to the Top 15 by turning back the veteran.

After Pereira did a dance routine coming out of the back, Magomedov started the fight fast, taking the action to the usually high-energy Brazilian. Pereira warmed up in the second, throwing and landing much more than he did in the previous frame, maintaining that into the early part of the third before Magomedov landed a couple thudding blows to put some distance between them once again.

They went the distance, much to the chagrin of the surprisingly displeased fans in Kansas City, with Magomedov coming away on the happy side of the verdict. That’s now three straight wins for the 34-year-old middleweight, who could find himself sporting a number next to his name when the rankings update next week.

Brown used his range and slick boxing early in the contest, keeping Dalby at the end of his punches and twisting his nose into a full Arlovski with a sweeping right hook before the Danish veteran put a right hand on his temple late in the frame that sent Brown to the canvas. Both men came out firing in the second, and when they planted their feet and began swinging mercilessly with one another just over a minute into the frame, Brown connected with a right hook amidst the chaos that caught Dalby clean and turned off his lights.

“Rudeboy” has been a stalwart in the welterweight division for a number of years and for the second straight year, he’s begun his campaign with a hellacious knockout. The 34-year-old called for a date with a ranked opponent and given his tenure and this performance, such a matchup would make a great deal of sense.

For much of the frame, the two ran fairly level, with neither man landing anything of great substance. Late in the frame, Aliskerov landed a left hand that wobbled Muniz, with the Brazilian having a delayed fall to the canvas. Once he toppled, Aliskerov pounced and pounded out the finish.

Aliskerov was a popular dark horse in the middleweight division last year, but lost some momentum when he accepted a short-notice, main event assignment against Robert Whittaker and suffered a first-round loss. But this was the kind of effort that should rekindle much of that enthusiasm and earn the Russian an opportunity to face someone with a number next to their name next time out.