
Julianna Peña seeks to successfully defend her bantamweight title for the first time in this highly anticipated showdown with former Olympic gold medalist Kayla Harrison.

Pena became a two-time champion last fall with a narrow split decision win over Raquel Pennington in Salt Lake City. As she has throughout her career, the former Ultimate Fighter winner leaned on her grit and tenacity to get the job done, and now aims to use a comparable approach to topple Harrison and cement her standing as the ruler of the 135-pound ranks.

Harrison also fought on that event in Salt Lake City last October, getting the better of Ketlen Vieira in a competitive bout that forced the former WSOF and PFL standout to dig deeper than she did in her dominant debut. The 34-year-old challenger is 18-1 overall, has won three straight since suffering her lone defeat, and has had her eye on UFC gold since signing with the promotion; now she gets the chance to claim it.

Not only will the jawing between these two in the preamble to them stepping into the Octagon be entertaining, but there is a ripple of intrigue that runs through this pairing that can’t be ignored. Pena is a tenacious pressure fighter with exceptional conditioning, and while Harrison was able to go the distance and defeat Vieira at UFC 307, the potential for two additional rounds looms large over this one.

Denver-based flyweights Rose Namajunas and Miranda Maverick are set to square off in the co-main event of the UFC’s return to Atlanta on June 14.

Two-time strawweight champ Namajunas was active last year, earning wins over Amanda Ribas and Tracy Cortez before dropping a unanimous decision to Erin Blanchfield at the start of November. She’s now 2-2 in four flyweight starts and has fallen to No. 7 in the rankings in the talent-rich 125-pound weight class.

Maverick also made three appearances in 2024, posting wins over Andrea Lee, Dione Barbosa, and Jamey-Lyn Horth to extend her winning streak to four. The 27-year-old has long been viewed as someone that could make a push towards the top of the division, and if she’s going to do so, the time is now.

There was a ton of action and movement in the division at UFC 315, with another critical bout taking place this past weekend, and so if either of these ranked athletes wants to ensure they are included in the next round of critical bookings, they need to grab a victory at State Farm Arena. Will Namajunas bounce back and show she’s still a threat or can Maverick collect the biggest win of her career?