
Silva picked up right where he left off to begin his 2025 campaign, scoring a first-round stoppage win over Melsik Baghdasaryan in Seattle to move to 4-0 in the UFC and extend his overall winning streak to a dozen. He called out Mitchell during his time on the mic following the victory, and now gets his wish, looking to register a fifth victory in 16 months to force his way into the Top 15.

Rodriguez has dropped back-to-back contests since claiming the interim title back at UFC 284, coming up short in his bid to unify the belts at UFC 290 before getting submitted by Brian Ortega in their rematch in Mexico City last February. The ever-dangerous Mexican contender has shown many times that he’s capable of elite efforts and breathtaking performances, and it’s going to take another one here in order to get things moving in the right direction again.

Strawweight standouts Yan Xiaonan and Virna Jandiroba clash in South Beach, with the winner heading into the summer as the presumptive No. 1 contender in the 115-pound weight class.

After coming up short in her championship clash with compatriot Zhang Weili at UFC 300 last April, Yan got things moving in the right direction again in November, out-working Tabatha Ricci over three rounds in Macau. Jandiroba arrives in Miami on a four-fight winning streak, with each of those wins coming against ranked fighters, including Loopy Godinez and former title challenger Amanda Lemos.

The 41-year-old Miller makes the walk for the 46th time in his UFC career (58th fight overall) looking to build on his first-round submission win over Damon Jackson in November and add to his record for the most wins in UFC history. Hooper has literally grown up before our eyes, transforming from a pugnacious “Teenage Dream” that struggled to find consistency into an ascending lightweight that has gone 4-0 since transitioning to the 155-pound weight class, with each of his last three wins coming inside the distance.

Bantamweights open the show in Miami as Nora Cornolle faces off with the returning Hailey Cowan.

France’s Cornolle looks to get back into the win column after dropping a split decision to Jacqueline Cavalcanti last time out. Cowan fights for the first time in roughly two years after missing weight and dropping a decision to Jamey-Lyn Horth in her maiden voyage into the Octagon in April 2023.